ARUSHA Region overpowered its tough rivals to clinch this year’s national women athletics title in the finals climaxed yesterday at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam. Arusha were crowned the champions after hauling seven medals in the event that attracted top runners from all regions. Arusha won three gold, two silvers and a bronze medal. Unguja South claimed the second position in the event that also serves as talent search for athletes to represent the nation in Olympic Games of 2020 which will be held in Tokyo Japan. The Isles region won four medals; two gold, one silver and a bronze medal. Zanzibar Urban West Region clinched the third position after hauling two gold medals and bronze. Coast Region which fielded athletes from Filbert Bayi Schools finished fourth overall with one gold, two silver medals and two bronzes. The hosts Dar es Salaam, settled at the fifth position after pocketing one silver and two bronze medals ahead of Dodoma and Singida regions who finished sixth and seventh respectively. Both regions managed to collect one silver medal. 129 athletes participated in this year’s competition, according to the organisers, Athletics Tanzania (AT). The athletes competed for both track and field events classed in sprinting, middle distance and long distance races. The disciplines included 100m and 200m dash, 400m, 800m, and 1500m as middle distance races while long distance races were 5,000m and 10,000m. Javelin was the only field event staged on the day. The championship was sponsored by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Speaking with the winners after the end of the competition, JICA country representative, Toshio Nagase urged the winners to work hard as to ensure they get tickets to represent the country in Tokyo Olympics in 2020. He also wanted those who didn’t win to continue trying hard to ensure their dream to participate in Tokyo Olympic Games is realised. Angelina John, a Tanzanian runner who won Nagai Marathon last month, has not qualified for the Tokyo 2020 Games, and according to Tanzania Olympic Committee secretary, Filbert Bayi, the official qualifying time for marathoners is January 1, 2019. Bayi said no athlete has qualified so far since January has not yet come. The secretary general of Athletics Tanzania, Wilhelm Gidabuday also confirmed that no one has qualified, but called on athletes to start preparing for the Olympics before the qualifying season starts early next year.