THE governments of countries of Africa in implementing globalisation assume the functions of keeping law and order, administering justice, policing, fighting corruption, having good governance, and building and maintaining infrastructure. These things are paid for by the taxes collected from citizens or by foreign finances which become debt burdens from the donors to be paid back by the poor countries of Africa. Thus the Western Trans- National Corporations (TNCs) dominated and exploited the national markets of the countries of Africa. The 1980s were years of ‘Africa’s lost decade’. During that decade, Africa paid US $ 217 billion to the countries of the North including US only in debt serving but Africa received US $ 214 billion in loans and grants from donors from the countries of the North. Capitalist globalisation is a new strategy which is used by capitalist countries of Western Europe and United States to penetrate the countries of Africa to control, dominate, exploit Africa and plunder its resources. African states which comply with capitalist globalisation, experience destruction of public sectors which had been developed. The industrial sector is privatized or liquidated to make public industrial sector incapable to compete with the industries of Western Europe and United States. Commanding heights of the economy in the public sector are sold at very cheap prices to foreign investors. Privatisation of production and service sectors in the countries of Africa is a conditionality of the World Bank and IMF which serve capitalist interests of countries of Western Europe and United States. Economic reconstruction or economic rehabilitation which is advocated by IMF is directed to socio-economic conditions and status of relationships between Africans and Foreigners. Neo-colonialism is meant to intensify exploitation and deepen poverty and underdevelopment caused by exploitation of African countries. The imposition of neo-colonialism was justified by the Western capitalist countries as a means to use foreign aid and foreign investments to develop countries of Africa. The way forward for sovereign states of Africa to achieve economic independence, is through fierce struggle against neo-colonialism. Under neo-colonialism, globalization drains the economies of countries of Africa. The Respected Leader of Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) Kim Jong IL wrote that “Imperialists are intensifying the plot of dominating the world under the pretext of globalisation”. Independent countries of Africa should build economic strength capable of guaranteeing sovereign states that they have power to achieve economic and social-cultural development. Anti-Neo-colonialism Struggle in Africa Progressive philosophy, ideology and strategies can revitalize African people to struggle against neo-colonialism in Africa. Foreign economic and technical aid has failed to bring about social and economic development in Africa. Foreign aid has not been an unconditional transfer of financial resources. Usually the conditions attached to foreign aid are intended to serve the interest of the foreign donors. Foreign aid is used as a technique by neo-colonial power countries and their international institutions to drain wealth from the countries of Africa to the capitalist donor countries. Debt burdens resulting from foreign aid intensify poverty in the aid receiving countries of Africa. Lack of clear revolutionary African oriented ideology can ruin Africa and its people. Neo-colonialism encourage destruction of social consciousness that could unite the oppressed people in countries of Africa. If people are guided by a revolutionary ideology they become aware of their existence and they cannot surrender to neo-colonialism because they have a sense of national pride, patriotism, self confidence and self respect. But many Africans are not fully aware of the danger to development of Africa posed by neo-colonialism and capitalist globalization. Many foreign investors do not bring into the receiving countries real capital. They either borrow from local banks or reinvest their accumulated surplus value. The balance of payment crisis continues unsolved as profits are transferred to home countries of the investors. In addition there are methods of tax evasion which are devised to escape taxation of those who have taken over national enterprises. For example, tax holidays of not paying tax and under value of imports and income from exports favour neo-colonialism and capitalist globalisation. A man-centered philosophy provides the most modern liberation ideology. The masters of the revolution and construction in Africa are the masses of the people and that they are also the motive force of the revolution and construction. This means that the masses of people are responsible for their own destiny and the masses of people have the capacity for shaping their own destiny. True development is brought by the demands, hopes and aspirations of the people and built on their historical, experiences. People of Africa should believe and be convinced that they have ability to transform their countries of Africa and bring their development. The essence of development means the development of the people, by the people for the people. The people are the subject and object of development for their better life. When we depend on the masses of the people and go among them and mobilize them to action they can frustrate neo-colonialism and defend economic independence, sovereignty and national construction for development of their countries. We have to live by our own sense and our own strength without following others blindly or trying to live with the help from others. It means to hold a consistent position in tackling everything in conformity to our actual circumstances. Thus African ideology should be based on the principle that people are master of everything and they decide everything. This is the most powerful weapon for development of countries of Africa. There should be political work among the masses of the people in order to build political consciousness and awareness among the masses of the people so that they can be fully involved in national construction and development. Political consciousness will make the masses of the people realize and appreciate the power of their united stand against neo-colonialism. Economic Liberation of Africa from Neo-colonialism In Africa our common desire as marginalized, dominated, despised, exploited, humiliated and oppressed people is to struggle for complete economic liberation. The revolutionary principles and philosophy is that, people are the masters of everything, they decide everything and should fight for their destiny. This is an original philosophy which has been evolved and systematized with its on principle of people centered development. The principle does not contradict the Africa cultural values and beliefs on independence of African countries. Neo-colonialism has to be transcended to enable Africa to get major positive change and develop. If African struggle for complete economic liberation is guided by correct philosophy and principles there is hope that a people centered development will triumph over neo-colonialism. The challenge of African countries is to develop philosophy and ideology which is relevant to the African situation which can be used to address the backwardness and predicament created by neo-colonialism. Countries of Africa should have African oriented ideology which reflects African reality and which is derived from African historical experiences. African ideology has to be enriched by practical and scientific methods to make popular masses in countries of Africa to struggle against neo--colonialism. The essence of African economic independence is the right to make choices and accept responsibilities that come with the choices which Africans make. Africans must have freedom in directing which way African countries should go in the process of economic independence for the benefits of African people in their respective countries. Thus economic independence is the foundation and basis of state sovereignty with complete political power, real economic independence and genuine respect of Africa and its people.