FAVOURABLE business environment is essential for attracting investors and for the development of trade and industry. Economists say that in contrast, poor business relations can scare away investors. Zanzibar National Chamber of Commerce Industries Agriculture (ZNCCIA) continues to urge both the Isles government and the Union government to cement a favourable environment for businesses to thrive. Members of the chamber say it is high time authorities acted to save the few industries operating in Zanzibar, against competition from the Mainland and other countries in the East African region, also on track for common market. According to ZNCCIA, Zanzibar is flooded with goods from abroad, at the same time the local industry is faced with lack of reliable market for its home made goods, mainly due to inconveniences in transporting goods to the Mainland. Discussing the challenges facing producers here including the report on ‘impact of Excise Duty on Production of Non-Alcoholic Drinks in Zanzibar’ the members of the business community say that while they struggle to develop industries and create jobs, government needs to ensure there is a level playing field. “We are uncomfortable with the excise duty on locally produced non-alcohol drinks (Mineral water, juices, etc) products, because we cannot freely export our products to the Mainland,” said Mr Khatib Ali, trader. “Our competitors in Mainland freely sell bottled water and other non alcoholic drinks like juice, in Zanzibar, why can’t we access market on the other side of the Union?” he asks. Commenting on the frequent complaints from the business people here, the Minister for Finance, Dr Khalid Salum Mohamed says excise duty on locally manufactured goods including non alcohol drinks, is legal and all producers in both Zanzibar and mainland have been paying the tax. “Their complaint regarding inconveniences they face in search for market in Dar es Salaam and other areas in the mainland are genuine and have been considered. Discussions are underway and soon we will have a solution to solve the Non Tariff Barriers (NTB) so that producers are free to sell anywhere in the united republic of Tanzania,” Mr Mohamed said. He said in addition to consultation between respective authorities from Zanzibar and union government, a special committee has been formed and assigned task to deal with complains about the NTB and it is expected to meet in December this year. The minister said both Union and Zanzibar governments are committed to developing industries to speed up growth of economy along with poverty reduction through job creation for the many idle youth in the country. Minister for Industry and Trade, Ms Amina Salum Ali says the government has been improving business environment by ensuring friendly regulations and policies are in place, aiming at attracting more investors into industrialisation which means more employment, manufacturing and also import substitution. “We are working on the unresolved complaints from traders which include removing inconveniences at the Dar es Salaam Port in accessing market in Tanzania mainland,” she said, asking producers not to be discouraged by the delays. However, members of the chamber say the challenges facing them in finding market have existed for many years, discouraging us from expanding our business beyond Zanzibar because of difficulties in accessing market in Dar es Salaam and other regions in the mainland. ZNCCIA Executive director, Mr Hamad Omar Hamad says under the ongoing industrialisation plan, building favourable environment for local investors and manufacturers, along with protection and free trade within the United Republic of Tanzania is important. He said the government should exempt excise duty on goods produced in Zanzibar or ensure there is no unnecessary inconveniences for traders from here in accessing the bigger market of mainland Tanzania, “this complain has existed for long and it is high time to be resolved to pave way for industrial growth. ” We thank Union Prime Minister, Mr Majaliwa Kassim Majaliwa, the ZNCCIA executive director said, adding that Trade and Agriculture ministers from Zanzibar and Mainland have been directed to meet and discuss issues that obstruct smooth business in the country. When making a presentation to members of the ZNCCIA and Members of the House of Representatives ‘budget; and Finance, Trade and Agriculture’ committees, lobbying symposium here, Mr Ussi Hamza Hussein- Consultant and lecturer at the Institute of Tax Administration advised parties to find solution in clearing the way for trade. He said that issues of inconveniences at the Dar es Salaam port and excise duty on non-Alcoholic drinks produced in Zanzibar can be resolved amicably because there is good will in promoting local industries. After a research in 2016 about the mentioned grievances, the consultant concluded that a excise duty (tax on manufactured goods which is levied at the moment of manufacture) is not advisable to be implemented in Zanzibar. Mr Hussein said nonalcoholic drinks had six factories most of which started to operate within a decade ago. As of October 2015, the industry had a total employment of 313 people, of whom 72 percent were males. It was further found that 79 percent of the employees were permanent while 21 percent were casual labourers. He said during the period under review (2010 to 2014), the production in 2010 increased from 15.4 million litres to 17.2 million litres, in the following year, equivalent to 11.6 percent increase. Thereafter, the production declined consecutively by -16.2 percent and -13.9 percent before realizing a positive growth of 0.3 percent in 2014. The researcher said, “The declining performance was partly attributed to the production closure of the Coca Cola plant in Zanzibar, and the decline of the products demand due to competition resulting from imported brands.” According to Article 4 of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania (URT) of 1997 which specified the Union Matters as listed in the First Schedule TRA is the only institution with constitutional power to administer domestic excise revenue in Tanzania including Zanzibar. He recommended that in order for the Government to maintain its policy of promoting manufacturing base, it is strongly advised to reconsider its decision and convene stakeholders’ forum with private sector (non-alcoholic drink factories and ZNCCIA) to discuss the matter in detail. The revenue expert argues that businesses are operating today in an intensely competitive global economy, and therefore it is important for them to have a market at home in which they can build their scale (be able to be regionally and globally competitive). Giving views on behalf of House Committees for budget; and Finance, Trade and Agriculture, Dr Mwinyihaji Makame Mwadini said Zanzibar highly needs to make business environment conducive for all for growth. “We cannot talk about encouraging industrialisation in the country when there are still hurdles (Non Tariff Barriers) to growth. We must have a win-win situation to benefit all at this time of struggling to achieve development goals.