THE Tigo 21km Half Marathon is currently the talk of the town as this has proved to be one of the biggest and popular events in Tanzania today, as the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Marathon enters the 17th year since it was started. Most of the participants who took part in the 5km Fun Run are now taking part in the Tigo 21km half Marathon and this is evidenced by the current trainings going on all over the country through various jogging clubs. Everyone wants to give it a try. The race attracts more than 5,000 runners and it usually happens at the Moshi Cooperative University thanks to Tigo, one of the leading mobile phone companies in Tanzania, which is now sponsoring the event for the 5th year running. The Tigo Head of Marketing, William Mpinga says they are looking forward to yet another exciting race next year on March 3rd, 2019 and wants participants to register on time as the entries are limited and there is a possibility of the numbers running out before the estimated time due to popularity of the race. “When we took over five years ago the race was not as popular as it is now but we are glad that we have made it a popular race and our customers have been supportive too as they can relate with the event quite well. We cannot thank them enough as they continue to make us support this big event that is one of the biggest in and out of Tanzania,” he says. According to Mpinga, Tigo has been able to effectively promote the Tigo 4G network, which is the strongest among all networks and he wants participants to feel the great experience at the MoCU grounds during the event day. “We will continue supporting the Kilimanjaro Marathon as this has to us proved to be one of the most well organized events that brings together hundreds of runners for a good course,” he says and adds that as Tigo they have also been using the Kilimanjaro Marathon to promote the conversation of the prestigious Mt. Kilimanjaro which is one of the biggest tourist attractions in Tanzania. He also says the athletes have made the brand proud by outshining some Kenyans who have been dominant in marathons. “We have a good example of Fainula Abdi, who made us proud last year as she took second position in the Half Marathon. We believe that this year we will do even better and produce more winners.” he says. Regarding this year’s prizes, he says they will give 11m/- as total prizes for the top ten runners where the first male and female each received 2m/-. “We will continue improving this year after year,” he says adding that the Kilimanjaro Marathon has also made Tigo Pesa more popular. To register on Tigo Pesa, he says one is supposed to dial *149*20# and follow the instructions and for non Tigo customers, they can request their friends or relatives to register them by dialing the same number. “Participants should however note that registration is only confirmed once payment is done and a confirmation message will be sent to the registered participant. This message will be used to collect race numbers at a date, time and place that will be announced by the organizers,” he says. The Marathon organizer, John Addison, who is also the Managing Director of Wild Frontiers, says Tigo’s contribution has been overwhelming as the race has become bigger and bigger and seen all the entries completed and left participants demanding for more numbers. “This year the Tigo 21km numbers ran out a day before the official closure of registration but we could not print more to ensure that we could be able to cater for the numbers that we had planned for, says Addison. He says they also placed chips on all the numbers that helped in tracking all the runners hence making the timing easy and more professional. “Thanks to the very able Tigo 4G network that this was made possible. According to Addison, Tigo Pesa also worked out so well as most people are excited by the easy way to register themselves and only collect numbers at registration points. “Online registration has already started through www. kilimanjaromarathon.com on the Top Events Entry Portal, or through The Kilimanjaro Marathon Entry Portal, for Tanzanians, operated by Tigo. This can be used by dialing *149*20# from a Tigo number, and follow the instructions. Non Tigo users they can request Tigo subscribers to register for them by dialing *149*20# and following the instructions,” he said and stressed that registration will only be confirmed upon payment, on both payment Portals. Other sponsors include Kilimanjaro Premium Lager-42km, Grand Malt-5km Fun Run and water table sponsors KK Security, Keys Hotel, Kilimanjaro Water, TPC Sugar, Simba Cement, AAR, Kibo Palace, Barclays Bank and Precision Air The Kilimanjaro Marathon is organized by Wild Frontiers and Deep Blue Media and nationally coordinated by Executive Solutions Limited.