FROM its stunning Indian Ocean beaches to the shores of Lake Victoria, from the arable plains of its central plateau to the heights of Mt. Kilimanjaro, Tanzania offers unparalleled wildlife and natural resources, which should be preserved at all costs. The citizens ought to be thankful of the wildlife bestowed to them as precious and with that in mind, the recent Researchers from the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research (Leibniz-IZW) in Berlin, Germany and Centre for Functional Ecology and evolution (CEFE) in Montpellier, France, who have developed a new matrix model to determine the impact of a major epidemic of canine distemper virus (CDV) on the population of spotted hyenas in Serengeti National Park should be received with praises. People should know that the term ‘wildlife’ should not only cater for wild animals, but also takes into account all undomesticated lifeforms including birds, insects, plants, fungi and even microscopic organisms to be protected, which in a way depend on one another to balance ecological system. The researchers seemed to be pointing that if one organism (read spotted hyenas) are removed from the chain, scientifically a healthy ecological balance would not be realized, because organism in this planet has a unique place in food chain that helps contribute to the ecosystem in its own special way. But, sadly today, many of the animals and birds are getting endangered, not only as a result of poaching and other human related activities, but also diseases which eliminate them. If soon, no stringent steps are taken to save wildlife, including further researches into their lives, it would not be long when they will find a place only on the list of extinct species. And that would not be all! The extinction of wildlife species will certainly have a fatal impact on human race as well. So, for us as humans, it becomes a great responsibility to save the wildlife, our planet and most importantly, our own selves, through the researches like that of Leibniz-IZW and CEFE. “This is a fairly high value, similar to that of measles in humans, which also explains why the epidemic spread so rapidly in the 1990s,” says Stephanie Kramer-Schadt (Leibniz-IZW). What is true for measles in humans also applies to CDV in hyenas: if young survive the infection they develop antibodies and gain immunity for the rest of their life. The study highlights the importance of age and social status in the spread of a childhood illness. In their model, based on the results of a study published in the new Nature open-access journal ‘Communications Biology’ following a severe CDV epidemic that swept through the park in 1993 and 1994, reduced the lion population by about a third. It also hit the spotted hyena, many of which (especially young ones) showed clinical symptoms of the disease and died. According to the local Guardian Newspaper yesterday, we are told CDV was probably introduced to Africa in the early 20th century. The epidemic in lions and hyenas in the early 90s was caused by a novel strain that was highly contagious for these two carnivore species.