THE launch of ‘ T uje P am oja Challenge’ cam paign to inculcate in T anzanians a culture of planting and taking care of trees by Minister of State in the Vice P resident’s Off ice (Union and Environm ent) January Makam ba is com m endable. The cam paign encourages every T anzanian to plant and take care of at least one tree a year to curb deforestation. Yes, the more w e plant and take care of trees, the m ore w e curb desertification caused by prolonged droughts, deforestation and bad agricultural and livestock practices. According to yesterday’s m edia reports, studies show that Tanz ania is in danger of turning into a desert by 61 per cent due to an increase in the rate of deforestation although the country has m any f orests (52 per cent) in the East Africa region. Many people are not aw are of or don’t care at all about the im - portance of planting and taking care of trees. That is w hy som e of them set fire to bushes and clear grass, leaving the land bare and for them that is how they can keep the environm ent clean. During the first phase governm ent a slogan “before you cut one plant three trees” w as used to sensitise T anzanians on the im portance of planting and taking care of trees and it helped a lot to keep the trees w e still hav e today. How ev er, things seem to hav e changed. F irst, there is high population density and land, w hich at the tim e w as cov ered by trees, has been cleared because of hum an settlem ents, farm ing or grazing. Second, prolonged droughts are now com m on. Third, there is m ore destruction of w ater sources and of the env ironm ent. All these contribute greatly to desertification. This being the case, w e think that there is a need to increase public aw areness on tree planting and caring. We say this because w e believ e if w e really w ant to w e can reduce the rate of desertification in the country. So, the ‘T uje P am oja Challenge’ cam paign is an eff ort to encourage tree planting and caring, w hich w e w holeheartedly support. It w ill be a pity if our beautiful country, green as it looks one day turns into a desert. But unless w e increase public aw areness so that the planting and caring of trees sinks in our hearts w e w on’t succeed. Then, it w ill be like cutting the branch of a tree w e seated on and w e know w hat w ill happen w hen it falls dow n. T anzania is w ith a v ariety of natural resources and it is our responsibility to take care of them and w e shouldn’t allow their depletion. We can m ake this tree planting and caring cam paign sustainable if it starts from the grassroots – that’s fam ily, school and v illage lev