FOREIGNERS who want Tanzanian Visa or residence permits can now acquire such services electronically, a move expected to increase the flow of investors especially into industrial sector, to boost the current industrialisation drive. This comes after Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa (pictured) launched the electronic visa and resident permit application in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Premier Majaliwa noted that the new development would generate more revenue of the applicants as a customer could pay a fee directly and not through agents. The new move has been introduced to simplify the process of getting such documents as the foreigners would not need to go to embassies to seek the services. “Introduction of the electronic visa and residence permits services is part of the government’s efforts to attract investors, particularly in the industrial sector because this move would simplify acquiring of those documents to foreigners and thus facilitate economic development,” he stated. He further said the new system would help remove bureaucracy and speed up delivery of the services and strengthen national security. After the launch, the Prime Minister used the platform to caution people who acquire visas and permits against conducting activities contrary to what was stated in the particular documents. Engaging in activities different from what the stipulated in the permits was tantamount to violating the country’s laws and regulations governing the immigration. The launching of the electronic visa and residence permit services was in line with the growth of science and technology and government policy on Information and Communications Technologies (ICTs) in its services (e-government), he explained. “I call upon officials of the Immigration Department to ensure that the launched electronic systems are protected and developed,” he said. He told the officials to provide services in time, efficiently and observe laws and regulations since the Fifth Phase Government had pledged to strengthen provision of services to Tanzanians and foreigners. He informed the gathering that electronic visa and permits services would be linked to other government systems under the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) and others.