THE quest for raising 137bn/- through the six and 12 months treasury bills maturities in the session held on Wednesday was not achieved, suggesting key investors, particularly commercial banks were still facing liquidity problems. The two instrument, 182 and 364 days offer and which are part and parcel of the government financing ended the session were undersubscribed after fetching 101.08bn/-. The 35 and 91 days offer are used by the BoT to manage liquidity in the market (mop up or inject liquidity in the market). According to the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) auction results, the 35 days did not attract any bids while the three months tenures received bids worth 50m/-. The government wanted to raise 1bn/- and 3bn/-, respectively through the two maturities. At the end, the total amount tendered was 101.13bn/-after being undersubscribed by 39.86bn/- and failing to reach the target of 141bn/- through the second T-bills session held in November and the 24thsession auctioned since January this year. Despite the undersubscription, the government retained 89.11bn/- as successful amount from 105 bids out of 116 bids received in the trading session. Yield rates for the 362 days offer increased to 8.74 per cent while for the 182 tenure remained unchanged at 5.22 per cent. Rates for 91 days offer was 3 per cent and there was none for the 35 days instrument. Commercial banks make some 60 per cent market share of the business in the debt instrument. Others are insurance companies, pension funds, some microfinance institutions and retail investors. The banks financial statements published recently show that deposits of most financial institutions were on the decline, signifying liquidity problems. To rescue the situation, some of the banks have been borrowing from the central bank, issuing rites issue and offering customers attractive interest rates through special fixed account packages. Low participation may continue to affect treasury bills performance as most key investors are preparing to fulfill quarterly corporate taxes and other year end obligations.