In an interview with Correspondent PETER KEASI, NIDA’s acting Director General, Mr Andrew Massawe, says progress has been made in registration and identification of persons in form of mass registration. The bulk of this initial workload has been completed in Zanzibar and Dar es Salaam, Coast and Tanga regions; while work has advanced in other 18 regions. Early preparations for the exercise have been made in Kagera, Kigoma, Dodoma, Rukwa and Katavi regions. Despite the challenges, he says, the authority is on track QUESTION: Critics and some of your supporters argue that the National Identification Authority (NIDA) has travelled on a bumpy road. Do you agree? Answer: No, I don’t. Since the establishment of the authority we have been receiving funds from the government to undertake the exercise of registration and identification of persons. We have been doing our best within the limits of the funds we receive from the government.Q. NIDA, we are told, is mandated to develop and implement a modern national system of identification and registration of persons in Tanzania. A. That is correct. The authority was established in 2008 and when one studies article 2 of the instrument one sees the objectives for which NIDA was established spelt out as: to determine citizenship of individuals and register identity information, provide identification documents (ID), provide good governance of the Authority; and manage and establish an ID database and provide reliable, accessible and useful information to selected stakeholders. Q. Is identification and registration of persons a Union matter? A. Yes it is. Q. Has identification of persons been completed in all Mainland regions? A. No. Registration and identification of persons in form of mass registration has been completed in the following regions: Dar es Salaam, Coast, Tanga. The exercise is currently being conducted in Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Manyara, Singida, Lindi, Mtwara, Ruvuma, Mbeya, Njombe, Songwe, Shinyanga, Simiyu, Mwanza, Mara, Geita, Iringa, Morogoro and Tabora regions. But we have also made initial preparations to start the exercise in Kagera, Kigoma, Dodoma, Rukwa and Katavi regions. You may wish to know that registration and identification of persons has also been completed in Zanzibar. Q. The Tanzania National NIDA clears greater part of initial workload Identity Card is described as an easy to carry document contact-less card with a chip that has biographic and biometric data. Why is it necessary to have both types in one card? A. It is necessary to have both types of data in one card for easy identification. Q. During a population forum in Dar es Salaam one person said any ID system has to answer basic questions. In the Tanzanian context, what are those questions? A. Even in our own case our ID system has to have answers for those questions. The questions are: who is who? The ID system has to help you in biometric authentication. This helps the government to identify people clearly when you have registered persons and organisations. Then you have who owns what? Once you have the answer you know one’s fixed and movable assets. This knowledge helps in improving the country’s economy base. Then you have who does what? When you know one’s economic activity, this knowledge makes the task of public services delivery somewhat easy. The last one is who stays where? The physical address of an individual is easily known by answering this question. It is easy to locate. Q. It is said cards are issued to citizens, aliens and refugees who have applied for the cards. When aliens and refugees have to leave the country, do they surrender their cards to authorities? A. By the way a big number of aliens and refugees have been issued with cards. When they leave Tanzania they surrender the cards to authorities where they got the cards. Q. What kind of information is a card applicant required to produce? A. All applicants are given special NIDA registration forms. The forms help the applicant provide the information required for the exercise. Generally it is information relating to biographic and biometric data. For example an applicant has to prove that he or she stays in Tanzania as a requisite condition for registration. There is the question of proof of citizenship and this is also a prerequisite for enrollment. This is the kind of information an applicant has to produce. Q. Why is identification and registration of persons considered to be a catalyst for socio-economic growth in many nations? A. It is so considered because planning socio-economic growth is a complex exercise that demands detailed and accurate information on many aspects of life. You need to have a credible national data base with important information about people to be able to plan properly the socio-economic development of the people and the nation as a whole. Q. What are the proven benefits for identification and registration of persons in TanzaniaA. We have quite a number of benefits. The system expands the scope of government’s revenue collections. The system compliments the availability of critical information in the country and reduces the cost of obtaining such information when required. The system eliminates the need for government offices to look for information of persons residing in Tanzania when identification is needed. All information regarding Tanzanian and Foreign Nationals will be available in the National Registry of Persons. This system will assist the Higher Education Students Loan Board in identifying potential loan beneficiaries and at the same time help the board trace loan defaulters. The system will assist public and private institutions to focus on core business. The system will help in cost reduction. For example the system will improve the National Voters Roll by providing the most updated voters information. Social security funds will use the National System of Identification and Registration of Persons in identifying beneficiaries of the funds. National Health Insurance Fund will use the information contained in the National System of Identification and Registration of Persons in identifying contributors to the fund, hence improving services. The use of the new technology will help in removing ghost workers from the government payroll. This system will assist in the sharing of existing resources to support the provision, reduction of high interest rates and return of loans and streamlining compensation for citizen when need arises. Q. The National Identification Authority (NIDA) celebrates its 10th birthday on July 1, this year. When you look back what do you view as your major achievements? A. We have had major gains in the mass registration and identification of persons in many regions of the Mainland and Zanzibar. Further, NIDA has signed contracts with more than 38 stakeholders who are benefiting from the use our identification system. Q. Any major setback? A. None so far. However, people do not attend sessions as per schedule. For example, we do not have a whole year to register and identify persons in one region. Yet very few people turn up for registration and identification. This gravely curtails the speed of our work. We have limited time to spend in a given region. But people assemble to our centres en-mass during the last three or two days and therefore disrupting the regional schedule governing our work in that particular region. This is a big challenge that must be solved in the remaining regions