The Minister for Defence and National Security, Dr Hussein Mwinyi and his Israel counterpart Avigdor Liberman signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the two countries to share vital intelligence information to weed out all forms of security threats. The two ministers inked the deal at Upanga- based Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Headquarters in Dar es Salaam after their closed door meeting, which was preceded by a joint press conference to brief reporters on their deliberations. Amid tight security at Ngome premises, the ministers said they had agreed to cooperate in defence and security issues at the same time sharing crucial intelligence information to combat rising cases of transnational organised crime, including terrorism. For many years, Dr Mwinyi said, the two countries have not been in good terms of diplomatic ties but the relationship has now improved, describing the MoU signing as another milestone in cementing the ties. The signing ceremony was also attended by top state security personnel including the Chief of Defence Forces (CDF) General Venance Mabeyo, Director General of the Tanzania Intelligence and Security Service (TISS) Dr Modestus Kipilimba and other senior officials from the ministry of Defence and National Service. “We initially had a long time relationship with Israel but our friendship had in recent years slowed down due to the cold war and other reasons, including global politics,” said Dr Mwinyi, assuring that the situation has changed as the two countries enjoy good diplomatic relations. In ensuring that the diplomatic relations between Israel and Tanzania remain intact, President John Magufuli appointed Job Massima the new Tanzanian envoy to Israel just few daysafter Tanzania had opened her embassy in Tel Aviv. The Israel Minister said the just signed agreement will help the two countries to share intelligence information on areas of security and expertise in technological based security. Israel is among the countries in the world that boast of modern defence and security technology. Mr Liberman said his government will continue to cherish the bilateral relations that will be equally utilised in boosting trade and investment relations between the two countries.