Chief of Defence Forces (CDF), General Venance Mabeyo revealed this in Dar es Salaam, yesterday, when he visited the Mgulani JKT’s two factories where he also said he was satisfied by the good performance of the industries. Mgulani JKT has garment and bottled drinking water factories that produce textile products and the best quality of water respectively. “We want our industries to produce products that can not only be competitive in the country, but also in the East African Community and Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) member states,’’ said General Mabeyo. The CDF tasked the Executive Director of SUMA JKT, Brigadier General Charo Yateri, to ensure that the products that are produced from the two factories are of the best quality that suits the needs of the local and international market. According to Brigadier General Yateri, so far, the National Service has over 10 industries countrywide including oil processing, water, furniture, and sunflower factories, among others. He added that plans were afoot to have water treatment factory at Kimbiji in Temeke District, Dar es Salaam Region, saying initially, the National Service had solicited a loan amounting to 9.6bn/- from Azania Bank, but it later approached the National Health Insurance Fund to have the lowest cost possible for the construction of that factory. The National Service, according to him, has yet another plan to put up instant coffee industries. “We are well prepared for competition in the market because our prices are reasonable and we are very stable in the market,’’ he told the CDF. In regard to Mgulani bottled water factory, the head of the factory, Major Leah Mtuma said the contract for the construction of that industry was inked on May 04, 2017, between the Indian company Aguapuro Equipments Pvt Limited at a contract price of 693.5m/-. “This factory has a capacity to produce 32,000 water bottles within eight hours and currently we are finalising the setting of the factory so that the contracted company can hand it over to SUMA JKT,’’ she added. The garment factory according to Major Winfred Msheri who is the Manager for the National Service Garment Factory (NSGF), it produces 500 military combats per day. The factory that cost the army 810bn/- to have it kick start operations was established in April 2017, according to Major Msheri. Yesterday, General Mabeyo witnessed smooth operations in both factories