“Men and women view things differently, but the latter have extra attention to details; the situation on the ground, however, is that most of scientific studies are dominated by men due to their large numbers in the field,” according to Dr Pacifah Okemwa of Kenya National Academy of Sciences (KNAS). Dr Okemwa thus urged governments and communities at large to put in place conducive learning environment, as well as provide support and mentoring to young women scientists in the African continent, in order to bridge the shortage of women scientists. “Chances are high that if a scientific study is dominated by men, then it will be one sided and lack gender equality. This is not healthy given the fact that it is women who face most of the challenges in taking care of families and communities,” Dr Okemwa, who is also a lecturer at Kenyatta University in Kenya, stated. The scholar made the explanation while presenting a paper titled; “Impact to development when women pursue careers in science,” on the second day of the international forum on “Women and sustainable development in Africa” in Dar es Salaam, yesterday. The three-day forum which ends today has been organised by the Tanzania Academy of Sciences (TAAS), the Network of African Science Academies (NASAC) and the French Academy of Sciences (FAS). Dr Okemwa observed that “it is painful to exclude women in scientific studies,” stressing that neither men nor women can work for development. She noted further that women scientists have provided home-grown solutions to problems which communities face, citing some of the problems as diseases, malnutrition, poverty, food insecurity and environmental degradation, among others. At the same occasion, the President of TAAS, Prof Esther Mwaikambo, pointed to the fact that educating women is crucial for inclusive development. “An educated woman can make the best in the society. A woman has a lot of roles and responsibilities which are vital in transforming communities for better,” she explainedProf Mwaikambo, who is also the Vice-Chancellor of Hubert Kairuki Memorial University (HKMU), told delegates at the meeting that under her leadership, the varsity admits equal number of male and female students into medicine studies. A youth coordinator at the Young Women’s Christian Association (YWCA), Ms Rose Manumba, said the organisation empowers young women on entrepreneurship, patriotism and leadership skills to address poverty. “Gender equality, improved health and job creation are also among issues we deal with. Our organisation works with the government and other stakeholders towards attainment of the SDGs,” Ms Manumba explained. A delegate for Egypt, Prof Amal Amim Ibrahim, emphasised that women are crucial agents in realising the SDGs, since they are the ones who face challenges such as poverty, shortage of water and energy, among others. Prof Amal, who works with the Women in Science Without Borders (WISWB) in Egypt, made the emphasis when presenting a paper themed; “The role of women’s organisations in realising SDGs in Africa.”