The simplified birth registration system will enable the registration of all new births and reduce the backlog of unregistered under five children in the two regions. “We are transforming the system to make it easier for children and their families to access the entitlement of a birth certificate,” said Emmy Hudson, the Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Registration, Insolvency and Trusteeship Agency (RITA), responsible for registration of vital events including births. Ms Hudson said that the government duly recognises the contribution of the government of Canada, UNICEF and TIGO for their commitments to this cause. UNICEF Representative in Tanzania, Ms Maniza Zaman said that every child has the right to an identity and that this new system is reversing the low level of birth registration, with the hope that millions of children under-five who were invisible in the nation’s records will now be visible. The decentralised birth registration system moves the points of registration closer to the community. It establishes registration points at health facilities, which provide reproductive and child health services, and at the community ward executive offices in line with the government policy of decentralisation through devolution. The exercise has bridged the rural-urban divide, improving access to the most marginalised communities to register their children. It addresses the core issues of accessibility and affordability which has been a major barrier in the birth registration system in Tanzania. With the roll out of the system in the two regions, parents can easily access more than 790 registration points compared to 11 registration points available earlier. More than 1,700 Registration Assistants are trained to support the registration process. With the new system, the government has also waived the fee for registration and the first copy of the certificate is given free of charge, making it ‘one step, one visit’ process for parents to acquire the birth certificate. Through the use of mobile phone technology, data is instantly transferred and uploaded through SMS, facilitating a real-time tracking of progress. The government is implementing the new system since 2012 in partnership with UNICEF, TIGO and the Canadian government, which is funding the project. The roll out in Mara and Simiyu makes the two regions to join Lindi, Mtwara, Geita, Shinyanga, Mbeya, Songwe, Mwanza, Iringa and Njombe which have already been covered, reaching 2 million under-five children. “Birth registration helps to ensure that every child has access to health and social services they are entitled to,” said Ian Myles, the Canadian High Commissioner to Tanzania.“Canada is a proud supporter of Tanzania’s efforts to promote birth registration, enabling children and their families to exercise their basic rights as Tanzanian citizens. Speaking at the launching ceremony, TIGO’s Zonal Director for the Lake Zone, Joseph Mutalemwa said together they have a vested stake in ensuring the country’s prosperity and that of its people, saying that TIGO’s decision to support this initiative underscores their commitment to build a strong societal ecosystem that brings the promise of technology in communities where they operate.