Eng Amour made the announcement during a Tanzania Teachers` Union (TTU) council meeting in Kilimanjaro. He said several complaints had been raised, whose thrust was that some transfers were being engineered by hatred and the drive to settle scores. Ms Amour said some council officials were being criticised for not discharging their duties properly and in compliance with rules, regulations and professional ethics. She pointed out, categorically, that she would not tolerate any public servant in the region whose improper conduct or decisions would lead to the government being sued. Ms Amour said the government acknowledged the significant contribution of teachers to national development, and would thus not tolerate any misdeeds that compromised their rights. She expressed shock over problems teachers faced, including delays in settling their retirement dues, remarking further: “The government recognises the challenges that teachers are facing, including delays in paying their retirement dues; the government will ensure that the problems are fixed. We are fully behind you.” She called the region’s TTU leadership to compile a list of teachers who are pressing for payment of their dues, on the basis of which she pledged to take action. TTU Secretary in Kilimanjaro Region, Ms Digna Nyaki said that teachers were experiencing various challenges, including secondary school ones being transferred to primary schools without being paid their dues, in defence of President John Magufuli`s directives . “ While opening the TTU national council in Dodoma in December last year, the President said teachers should not be transferred without the employer having the money to pay them, but this is not being heeded,” she said. Ms Nyaki said an outstanding teachers’ collective 1.131bn/- was one of the most critical problems. The TTU Regional Chairman, Mr Omary Mchomvu, said teachers were essentially models of discipline enforcement, and that, if their role was acknowledged and their financial dues were met, they would have no cause to complain. He stressed, however, that they would not relent their spirit to serve their compatriots, through their noble profession. Mr Mchomvu said Kilimanjaro Region had demonstrated their exemplary performance, by posting first position in the latest form four examination results, which they would strive to maintai