Mr Khatib says, in the fiscal year 2015/2016, for instance, the then Department of Government Printers collected less than 200m/-, but within one year of operation as an agency, its collections rose to 800m/-. “The printing market has expanded overwhelmingly over the past one year, along with sales of ZAGPA’s own products,” reveals Mr Khatib. “The expanding market is a signal to the increasing government revenues from ZAGPA as a business oriented institution,” he adds. The ZAGPA director general says despite some challenges, the agency now sees itself as a light of hope for not only the Zanzibar Government, but also for the larger United Republic of Tanzania, the private sector and the general public in executing its mandate. With increased efficiency in service delivery, the agency, currently, attracts more customers from both Zanzibar Island and Mainland Tanzania. “Presently, some institutions from Tanzania Mainland have started to solicit printing services from ZAGPA, believing that their work is in safe hands, as is treated under confidentiality and is delivered timely,” he says. According to the DG, the agency is now putting more emphasis on installing advanced and appropriate machineries while training the staff to cope with the printing technological advancements. While the future looks bright for ZGPPA, Mr Khatib recalls government’s massive efforts and investments to turn the agency into a competitive printer under liberal policies. “During the 1980s, liberalisation policies shook the performance of the government press, as it lost the printing monopoly in Zanzibar,” he recalls. “This was the time when the private sector brought about new investors in printing industry who had more sophisticated machinery, better sales skills as well as new perspectives of doing business,” Mr Khatib adds. T he government press had now to compete with private printers on a linear ground. The ZAGPA director general says, since private investors engaged more sophisticated technology and skilled workforce, the stateowned printer could not stand the competition. As a result, the private printers took over the market share of the government press, dominated the printing sector and pushed the press to the edges of nearly nonexistence. “Consequently, the printing services deteriorated, and the government documents that needed highest level of confidentiality landed on seemingly unsafe printing environment,” observes Mr Khatib. He says, to counter the problem, The Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar took the issue seriously to the next level, whereby in 2013, by then under the Second Vice- President’s Office, the government moved the printing press from Saateni to Maruhubi, formerly the cigarette factory. The relocation of the factory went hand in hand with installation of modern machines of which the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar invested two billion shillings. “The Government of Oman supported the government’s efforts by injecting USD 6,000,000, which aided the procurement of other printing machines,” says Mr Khatib. He boasts that, with that huge investment, the Government Printing Press is now capable to stand on a firm ground in terms of machines and has an enormous printing capacity that can produce in bulks within a very short period of time. “That, of course, does not compromise the quality of work. At this age, the press produces all types of printable including government reports, promotion materials, annual reports, bills, laws and all what you have,” assures the Director General. To further promote the ZAGPA and take it back to its previous status, the President of Zanzibar, Dr Ali Mohamed Shein declared it the Zanzibar Government Printing Press Agency (ZAGPA) by Legal Notice No.54, 2016. “The move aimed at commercialising this unit of the government as well as making it a self-driven profit making body that contributes to the national purse, while providing printing services to government institutions while giving a similar opportunity to the private sector,” explains Mr Khatib. Apart from offering printing services to government and private institutions, the Agency also serves as the government central store for office equipment and stationeries. Mr Khatib is confident that ZAGPA’s revival was a crucial move, since it reduces the cost burden to the government when seeking printing services and purchasing stationeries from private sources. “This will make the cash flow in the government veins stronger and more stable,” he noted. The ZAGPA DG says strategies deployed by the agency to promote its activities includes TV and Radio programs, documentaries, sponsorships and participating in trade forums in and outside Zanzibar. “We initiated these strategies with the view to get the Agency to its desired vision of being the best printing press in Zanzibar and beyond, while ensuring its valuable services of printing and archiving government documents in a safe environment and strict confidentiality,” he stated. On the history of printing in Zanzibar, the ZAGPA director, says it is one of the oldest sectors on the Indian Ocean Isles, whose history goes as far as more than 140 years back. “It was during the reign of the second Sultanate, when Sultan Barghash bin Said saw the need and importance of having government-owned press,” Mr Khatib recalls. He says the Sultanate’s intention materialised in 1875 when the first printing machine using Arabic and Latin scripts was bought from UK and installed at Bait el Ajaib (House of Wonders) in Zanzibar. “During this period, the press mainly produced and published business treaties and Sultans’ Decrees. The press served not only the Zanzibari population, but its service stretched from the neighboring countries to the Middle East and Oman, which was then under the Zenj Empire,” says Mr Khatib. In 1892, the Sultanate Press started to publish the “Zanzibar and East Africa Gazette “ and later on government bills, laws, newspapers and other publications were produced using that plant. “After the Zanzibar Revolution of January 1964, the printing press became officially under the ownership of the government. Efforts were taken to improve the factory so that it meets the customers as well as technological needs of the time,” narrates Mr Khatib. According to him, different documents continued to be printed with the press including official gazette, which famed the institution as “Kiwanda cha Magazeti”. During that period, Mr Khatib says, copies of a newspaper would be posted on the walls of Darajani Street and at Cinemas, so that people get to know what is going on around. “Basically, this was intended to raise people’s awareness on issues directly touching their lives,” he concludes.