The 5,000-litre tank was donated by the Uru North Joint Venture formed by Uru cooperative societies – specifically to harvest rainwater during the current season. One of the students at the school, Baraka Beda, said they would be able clean up toilets and avoid epidemic diseases like cholera as the tank will keep water. Another student, Abdallah Mohamed asked the stakeholders to ensure they get adequate water that would help us to not lose much of the time looking for water and instead of studying and doing well in the performance. The Chairman of Joint Venture Mr Felix Msao said the party had recognised the need for water to pupils and decided to help them so they spend more time studying while using it to watering vegetable gardens that will help them get balanced meals. The school has been experiencing water problem since its establishment causing pupils spend much of their studying time searching for water, situation that leads bad performance in the school, he said. “The children have been spending too much time trying to find some water at least for cleanness that hinders the development of our children so we have decided to volunteer to get this tank at the beginning and we will sit with the board to see if we can get enough water at school there, “said Msao. He said the 5,000 litretank would help collect rainwater during the period of rain and sometimes when the water available during the night can be directed to the tank to reduce inconvenience of looking for water for a long time. The teacher of the school, Fadhila Ume while receiving the support admitted there is water challenge at the school and said that they are obliged to order children to take water from home each morning and we have no idea if it’s clean and safe. He said that, “if the water sourced elsewhere wasn’t enough we would have to take pupils out during tea break to find water … that would affect their studies … some have to go home to find water that results in delays in cooking. Some villagers said that the pupils “spend too much time on the road” searching for water and asked the government to help the villagers get potable water