The Deputy Minister for Health, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, on Monday called on the public to develop a habit of visiting health care facilities for screening of their eyes to detect any early signs of glaucoma. Glaucoma, which is also referred to as the pressure of the eyes, is an eye disease which damages optic nerves and eventually causes loss of vision. According to the deputy minister, in Tanzania the disease affects 4.2 per cent of the population which is around 440,000. The disease usually affects people from the age of 40 upwards. The minister said 20 per cent of those affected by the disease the cause is hereditary, meaning that the rest, 80 per cent is caused by other things. The author of this piece happens to be one of the 440,000 Tanzanians affected by glaucoma; and the first time doctors discovered that I was a victim of the deadly disease was in 2002 at the CCBRT. Today I still remember this day as if it happened yesterday when two white doctors, one of them a professor, broke the sad news to me. After going through a series of eye tests, which included the taking of pressure of my eyes, I waited to be attended to further for over an hour as those who had been behind me went past me. Until then, I did not know what was going on. But just when I had made up my mind to approach the two white doctors, the younger doctor who I would later learn that he was a professor, summoned me to his desk. “You see,” he started, “at present, eye glasses will not help you. Your eyes need to be operated on. You have a condition called glaucoma or pressure of the eyes.” He explained that if my eyes were not operated on and treated, I would sooner than later completely lose my eye sight! The medical Professor did not need to say anything further. I told him, “can you operate me right away?” But to my disappointment, he said, he could not because the pressure on my eyes was too high, especially on my right eye which was weaker than my left. I must admit, my esteem has never been so low than on that day in 2002, when I was told by that young, white doctor that if my eyes were not operated on to save them from the debilitating disease, I had less than five years before I became blind. At 52 and working as a sub-editor for the Tanzania Standard Newspapers (then publishers of the Daily/ Sunday News), the news was nothing but devastating. I thought to myself, ‘how am I going to support my family, especially my three children who were still in their final years in secondary school? Although my wife was also employed and had relatively good pay, but the demands of good education in Tanzania required digging deeper into the pockets if one wanted sound education for the children. I was later given two vials of eye drop to apply on my eyes for two weeks before a decision would be made on when they would operate on my eyes. The doctor explained to me that once pressure on my eyes fell, through the application of the medicine he had just prescribed for me, then they would operate on my eyes, starting with one eye and the second one, a week later. As they say, the rest is now history. But I will never forget the painful anaesthesia-laden syringe that was driven, mercilessly, above my right eye in order to prepare me for the relatively painless operation that took about 40 minutes. After one week, I went for the second eye operation, this time on my left eye which was and still has stronger vision; and I was once more, forced to endure the same suffering I had gone through, during my first eye operation. As you read this piece on the experience I went through in the course of saving my eyes from glaucoma, I have unfortunately almost lost the sight of my right eye. But the loss of vision of my right eye would not have happened if I had those who worked on my eyes told me that from then on, I would be required to apply pressure alleviating eye drops on my both eyes, in the morning and before I went to bed, every day until the end of my life here on earth. Had I been given such important information, I would not only have had relatively good vision on both of my eyes today, but I would have also been able to continue to drive my own car as I had then done. I stopped driving my car at the end of 2004 after I started getting vision problem on my heavily dependent left eye. Until then, little did I knew that there were increased pressure that had started to take its toll on my left eye. At that juncture, I approached those versed on eye sight problems for consultation and I was advised to see an eye specialist, also a professor, who had taught, for many years, at the Muhimbili School of Medicine. Upon his retirement, the professor now operated his own health care facility a few metres on the road that branches to Kigogo after the big roundabout, in the outskirts of Dar es Salaam. After subjecting me to a series of eye tests through the use of his stateof- the-art equipment, that also included taking of pressure on both eyes; the good professor asked me whether I was applying eye drops on my eyes to help reduce pressure. This was not only news to me, but it was also a shocker. I told him, “but I was operated on.” “Yes, I know that,” he said, “but operation alone will not save your eyes…you need to apply pressure alleviating eye drops everyday in order to protect your eye sights,” he told me. This was the third year since I had my eyes operated on. And during all the while, I had not been told to apply the all-important eye drops for reducing pressure in my eyes. Initially, I was very angry over why I had not been told by those who operated my eyes on the need to continue applying those pressure reducing eye drops. But when I took stock of, in my mind, of the multitude of people the CCBRT attends to, not only in Tanzania, but also in East and Central Africa, I realised the challenges the facility faced. But again, today I still remember the words of the good professor who told me; “the painful operation you went through, would sooner than later become useless if you don’t apply eye drops that reduces the pressure on your eyes. ” Since then, I have used the eye drop, on both eyes in the morning and before I go to bed, every day. In June 2012, I flew to Bangalore, southern India, for a medical checkup at the Colombia Hospital where I had also the opportunity of undergoing eye sight checkup. Before going to India, eye specialists in local hospitals in Dar es Salaam had detected that my right eye had a cataract. However, they told me that they could not remove the cataract because it was still immature. However, the eye specialist at Columbia hospital who is one of the best 750 eye specialists in the world discovered that I had cataracts on both eyes. However, when I told him that I had been told that the removal of the cataract awaited further development, he told me that, that was right, but it was already an outdated technology! The young doctor who was in his late 30s said, “we will remove both cataracts, but through the latest technology. The Indian doctor told me not to worry about the bad experience I had had with the anaesthesia laden syringe which he said was also an old technology. “That is not going to happen with us here,” he assured me and added, “the operation will take about 40 minutes and it would be comparable to a walk in the park.” And indeed, that would come to pass. It was then I later came to realise that the eye drops that a nurse had applied on my eyes from 6am to 11am at an interval of ten minutes had been anaesthesia for my eyes. The eye drops were applied on both eyes so that whichever eye the doctor decided to operate on, he could without any problems because both eyes had had their adequate dose of anaesthesia. What I learnt in Bangalore is that the Indians have invested big in medicine and turned the sector into a foreign currency earning sector which they have christened it, Medical Tourism. What perhaps makes glaucoma an extremely dangerous eye disease is that it initially presents itself as short-sighted problem that could easily be corrected through the use of eye glasses that reduces such a problem. However, without your knowledge, you eventually start losing visionary powers and this is actually made possible because you don’t experience any pain on your eyes! I first had my eye glasses, to alleviate my growing, short-sightedness in 1978 when I was still undergoing my diploma course at the Tanzania School of Journalism, currently referred to as IJMCA which is part of the University of Dar es Salaam. I’m quite sure that had we had the CCBRT then, they would have discovered that I did not only have shortsighted problems, but there was also creeping, glaucoma condition. In 2002, I rushed at the CCBRT after I had missed at night more than five cyclists as I was driving back home from work at the Daily News. During the time, I had a lot of problems driving at night and this is perhaps one thing motorists who face similar driving problems at night need to see the CCBRT people. Therefore, as rightly noted by Dr Ndugulile, Tanzanians need to cultivate the habit of visiting health care facilities to check on any early signs of glaucoma, for the deadly eye disease steals your eyesight without your knowledge. In fact, if you look back to the village you came from and you realise coming across old men or women who are blind, but who say, it just happened one day when they realised that they could no longer see. Those people will tell you that they had, before, never experienced any pains in their eyes. Such people may have been victims of glaucoma