Yet, weighed against the nuisance value, getting rid of it would be preferable, but in so doing, you have to summon the guts, as softness would be defeatist ! There are certainly elements of that saying in the earnest efforts being undertaken by the Fifth Phase government to clear the mess that had characterized the public and private sectors for a long period and inject discipline onto them. During official tours by high-profile leaders upcountry, as well as while officiating major events in the designated capital city, Dodoma, and Dar es Salaam, the commercial hub, fixing problems and taming crooks is a major theme. Many leaders and senior executives are taking earnest actions against wayward individuals, trends and tendencies. They are, to invoke the saying alluded to at the outset, not looking the monkey in the face. Among those feeling the heat, lately, are fishing industry -linked crooks whose misdeeds include using illegal fishing gear, which has led to the alarming decline of fish stocks, including the much-fancied Nile Perch (sangara). President John Magufuli recently commended the Minister for Livestock and Fisheries Development, Mr Luhaga Mpina, for his instrumental role in curbing illegal fishing, highlights of which include destroying illegal fishing gear. His efforts, co-operatively with staff under his charge, have paid off in the form of the increase in the stocks of mature Nile Perch (sangara), a muchbeloved species. They are part of the broader mission to tame the crooks, under which the Lake Victoria Fishing Organisation (LVFO) approved 1.8 US dollars (about 4.1bn/-) for Tanzania. They represent good news, similar ones of which cover other areas where crooks are being cornered and sanctioned and their mischief, which compromises social welfare enhancement and economic development, is neutralized. The headway being made is largely thanks to the government’s boldness in tackling the crooks head on; not being soft. The praiseworthy approach fits neatly into the analogy of avoiding to look a monkey straight into the face when one sets out to tame it. The noble mission has to be sustained relentlessly.