Babu Seya and his son had sought for a number of reliefs, notably, an order for their release from prison where they were serving life sentences, after being convicted of the offences and that the United Republic of Tanzania had violated several Articles of the African Charter on Human and People’s Rights. Composed of nine justices, the Court unanimously found the request for release from prison by Babu Seya and his son, as applicants, to have been rendered moot following the decision by President of the UnitedRepublic of Tanzania, Dr John Magufuli, to grant them amnesty As regards to violations of the applicants’ rights, the African Court found the United Republic of Tanzania, as the respondent State to have not violated Article 5 and 7 (1) of the Charter, as regard to the failure to inform promptly the applicants on the charges after their arrests by the police. The justices ruled that the respondent State also never violated the applicants’ rights by denying them to call their counsel and the manner in which they were identified, as ones who committed the offences they were charged with. The Court noted that the applicants were duly represented during the trial. Furthermore, the Court found Tanzania to have not violated the applicants’ rights following the national courts to reject their defence of alibi they presented; the local court’s failure to admit the applicants’ report of urine and blood tests as evidence and alleged partiality of the national courts. In a fully packed court room, the Court also failed to prove the allegations by the applicants over the respondent State to have violated Article 13 and 18 (1) of the Charter over their rights to equal access to public service and protection of family affairs. However, the Court found the government to have violated Article 7 (1) of the Charter as regards to the failure to provide them witnesses’ statements to enable them prepare their defence and call material witnesses and refusal by the local court to allow Babu Seya to undergo tests on his impotence. Following such violation, the justices directed the respondent State to take measures to restore the applicants’ rights. They allowed the applicants to file submissions on other forms of reparations within 30 days of the delivery of the judgment, while the respondent would also have same days to reply. Nguza Viking and his son, Mr Nguza were sentenced to life imprisonment on June 25, 2004 by Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam, after they were found guilty of raping and defiling Mashujaa Primary School pupils aged between six and ten years in Sinza area, Kinondoni District. They were arrested on October 12, 2003 in connection with the charges before their arraignment together with a teacher at the school on October 16, 2003, facing 10 counts of rape and 11 counts of sodomy. The accused pleaded not guilty to all charges. After a full trial, the trial court ruled against the musicians, but the teacher was acquitted. Babu Seya and his three sons convicted of the offences appealed to the High Court, but they were unsuccessful. They took the matter to the Court of Appeal where two of his other sons were acquitted. The appellate court upheld the conviction of Babu Seya and Papii Nguza. After the appeal process, the duo filed an application for review of the judgment, which was also dismissed. Having exhausted all local remedies, the two decided to knock doors of the African Court. They were asking the Court to rule that their rights were violated. They requested the Court to compel the Respondent State to release them from custody and requested for reparation. In their application, the two allege that the Respondent State violated Article 1, 2,3, 5, 7(1)b), 13 and 18(1) of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. They submitted that after the arrest, they were not promptly informed of what charges they were being arrested for. They claim to have been under restraint for four days incommunicado without access to a lawyer or anyone else. Further, while they were in custody, the applicants claim to have been mistreated by police officers who notably insulted them. Having spent some time, they were later charged with rape. According to the applicants, the trial was unjustified for various reasons: The Court repeatedly dismissed requests to submit evidence, the results of the blood and urine test underwent by the applicants were not presented as evidence in the trial court. Court records show that even while the alleged victims claimed to be infected with HIV/AIDS and Gonorrhea, Babu Seya’s request to test his impotence and therefore his material impossibility to participate in the commission of the alleged crimes, was also rejected. They stated that the court used statements of alleged victims as evidence, where they described from their memory the room where the rape took place, but did not give consideration that the children and their parents visited the applicants’ house before the hearing and studied the room several times. It is alleged further that the applicants’ charges were fabricated in revenge by the former partner of the first Applicant, who was envious of his new engagement. According to the Applicants, the judgment was not based on strong evidence. The Court deliberately did not call material witnesses in the scene of the crime, the medical report tendered in Court by the prosecution contradicted the evidence adduced by the alleged victims of rape and sodomy