The Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr Leonard Akwilapo, issued the instructions in Dar es Salaam when officiating at celebrations marking the International Mathematics Day, formerly celebrated as International Pi Day – this time with a theme; “Mathematics is an important key tool of life; let us make use of it. Dr Akwilapo highlighted that the cooperation should centre on discussions and deliberations on best practices to enable the government to set up initiatives to improve teaching and learning of the crucial subject in schools. “The government is ready to embrace to set the process for implementing the recommendations to be suggested by the Mathematics Association and local authorities. This will help us address poor performance in Mathematics and other science subjects,” Dr Akwilapo emphasised. The PS assured the gathering that his ministry and the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government Authorities) would continue to improve teaching and learning facilities for Maths in schools. As a crucial subject, Dr Akwilapo expressed concerns that performance of Mathematics in primary and secondary schools was poor, reiterating the need for MAT and other education stakeholders to support the government’s efforts in capacity building for teaching and learning of the subject. Citing the low pass-rate for Mathematics from results released this year for the National Certificate of Education Leaving Examinations last year, the PS called for more research and efforts in enhancing teaching of the subject. The government on its part would draw up better methods of cooperation with MAT through provision of trainings and seminars to mathematics teachers in Tanzania. Earlier, MAT Chairperson, Dr Said Sima, pleaded with the government to enable teachers of Mathematics to improve their knowledge on new developments in the subject. According to Dr Sima, various studies conducted in schools had since shown that there was an acute shortage of Mathematics teachers in primary and secondary schools. “MAT will continue to work closely with the government to strengthen the partnership in supporting better teaching and learning of mathematics in schools,” he maintained. The educator informed the gathering which included education stakeholders, teachers and students from different schools in Dar es Salaam that starting this year the name has been changed from International Pi Day to International Mathematics Day. Dr Sima explained that the association awaits approval from the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) for formalisation procedures