The 45-year old driver held his steering wheel confidently, his feet on the gas pedal, cruising at 70km/h in an area where 50km/h signs had been installed. As the miles wore on, another bus appeared, on the opposite direction. The approaching driver flashed his headlights and gave a hand gesture. It was a warning signal; alerting Lyimo about a speed trap ahead. Lyimo gave the thumbs-up in response. “They must be hiding around the upcoming corner,” he talked to his conductor, who concurred by nodding his head before adding; “They often change their position.” The driver immediately slowed down to 50kph speed. About one and half kilometer ahead, around the corner, a traffic police vehicle was packed. Police officers with speed camera, stayed hidden from the view of drivers, looking for speeders. For Lyimo, all was well; he drove to the area under the speed limit, thus, succeeded to avoid the penalty for violating the speed limit. He had this fellow driver to thank for he alerted him about the speed trap ahead. Travelling upcountry one would observe this new trend among bus and truck drivers, gesturing to each other on the presence of speed cameras on highways. Due to increased speed limits enforcement on the country’s highways, drivers have found a new way to avoid getting caught on camera going over the limit. “We regularly communicate and warn each about speed cameras’ locations on the way,” says Peter Michael, a bus driver, who plies his trade between Dar es Salaam and Arusha. Michael concedes that he occasionally drive above the speed limit, claiming that he is not the only violator. “Many drivers do so due to lack of time, there’s this urge to get early to our destinations, even the passengers would want to arrive to their destinations early.” Speed cameras have been a vital tool to boost road safety and responsible driving in Tanzania since they were introduced a few years ago to curb mounting road accidents. Fatal accidents due to overspeeding among bus and truck drivers on highways had been a huge concern among road safety stakeholders and the general public, until the latest introduction of speed cameras. But still some drivers will always attempt to go above the speed limit. Some will always be in a hurry and will often do that at the expense of safety. And this is the reason why fatal accidents still occur. “Road safety is still a big challenge. Our people are still killed and injured through road crashes, human resources and families are affected,” Traffic Police Chief, Traffic Police Chief, SACP Fortunatus Musilimu admits. Based on statistics, road traffic injuries remain one of the leading causes of death in the country, posing huge health and economic consequences to the Tanzanian society. Over 2,533 deaths and 5,355 injuries occurred across the country were associated with 4,241 preventable road crashes last year. SACP Musilimu believes many of these lives could have been saved if drivers had maintained a safe speed. Some of factors that influence noncompliance to speed limits by drivers include lenient penalties, the possibility of escaping penalties and corruption. Due to the burden of road traffic injuries in Tanzania, measures to reduce their occurrence have gained special attention from various stakeholders with notable but still unsatisfactory outcome. For instance, the number of deaths and injuries dropped by 22.2 percent and 40.2 percent respectively, between 2016 and 2017. There were 723 less deaths and 3603 less injuries. Despite this improvement, the situation is still worrisome warns SACP Musilimu, adding that while the traffic police has tightened grips on dealing with road violators, collective efforts should be put in place to change the situation. The Traffic Police Commander says the road safety issue should be an agenda to address at national to village levels. “Road Safety is everyone responsibilities; myself, you and all of us,” he says. Speeding is quoted as one of the prime cause of most fatal road crashes in Tanzania. Drivers, especially those driving passenger vehicles, are often in a hurry and pay little attention to safety. Post-crash accounts by survivors and police investigation frequently point to speedy driving in a chunky number of road tragedies. The World Health Organization’s Managing Speed brochure describes two types of speed: extreme and inappropriate speed. Both are life and injury hazards, representing half of accidents in middle and lowincome countries. “Speed is a critical risk factor for road traffic injuries. Most of fatal accidents on Tanzanian roads are caused by excessive and inappropriate speeding,” says Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Deus Sokoni. The numbers involving accidents or deaths caused by speeding drivers remain high in the country, insists ASP Sokoni, adding; “to reduce the numbers more stringent measures are required.” According to road safety experts, as average traffic speed increases, so too does the likelihood of a crash. According to a research when driving at 50km/h, it takes at least 27 meters to react and stop, when driving at 60km/h it takes 36 meters to stop, when driving 70km/h and 80km/h it takes 46 meters and 57 meters respectively. “If a crash does happen, the risk of death and serious injury is greater at higher speeds, especially for pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists,” says WHO officer, Mary Kessy. WHO findings show that an adult pedestrian has less than a 20 percent chance of dying if struck by a car at less than 50 km/h but almost a 60 percent risk of dying if hit at 80 km/h. Ms Kessy says safety must lie at the heart of speed management and urges integration of a set of measurers that would compel road users to adhere to safe speed. Reducing deaths caused by traffic injuries have become a major priority of the coalition advocating for improved road safety legal and policy environment in Tanzania. The coalition, which has 15 members, says for effective control of speed, there is a need to enact a new Road Traffic legislation that would impose speed limit to all class of vehicles not only commercial, public service and heavy duty vehicles. “Speeding is quoted as the main cause of accidents, the faster the speed the greater the impact during the crash, unfortunately the current law is still insufficient enough to tackle this problem,” says Tanzania Media Women Association (TAMWA) official, Mr Edson Sosten.