The thrust of the programme is equipping beneficiaries with savings knowledge and enabling them to stand alone in the fight against poverty, the Project Manager, Ms Tatu Mwaloka said yesterday in Dar es Salaam. As a starting gear, TASAF is currently running a one-week capacity building seminar for all project supervisors countrywide, who will in turn disseminate the acquired knowledge to the targeted groups. She elaborated that the groups were to be composed of the same TASAF beneficiaries, who have been engaging in various income –earning activities, since the establishment of the Fund’s social services. “People have been engaging in various activities, be it farming, livestock keeping and pond-fishing, to mention a few. Lack of ‘how to do it’ knowledge is serious barrier they face. This programme thus intends to overcome all challenges through providing experts and productive grants, to back up their business capitals,” she said, adding: Business plan designing and stationeries are also part of TASAF support to group members; stressing that the Fund was determined to liberate Tanzanians from extreme poverty. She reminded the participants that the Livelihood Enhancement Programme was the fourth out of five TASAF areas of operations (since its establishment). Identification of beneficiaries (poor households), Conditional Cash Transfer and Public Work Programme have already been implemented. The final one is rehabilitation of infrastructures, mostly schools and hospitals, according to the Project Manager. TASAF Executive Director Ladislaus Mwamanga, reiterated that TASAF was earnestly determined to reduce poverty amongst Tanzanians; urging the project supervisors to continue implementing their tasks within the set timeframe. At the same time, Mr Mwamanga urged beneficiary groups to concentrate on supervisors’ directives over improving their businesses, something that would support the fifth phase government’s endeavours towards turning Tanzania into an industrial economy. “The project has already succeeded in Coast, Dodoma, Mtwara regions and Zanzibar where we have been implementing this programme in a pilot-related style. We are sure things will move on smoothly in other areas,” he said