The villagers told their District Commissioner, Ms Elizabeth Kitundu, recently, that they already have raised 10m/-to finance their own security arrangement. Nholi is not the only village that is terrorized by armed bandits in this country. In November, last year, two villagers in Rukwa Region were found guilty of armed robbery and a collective sentence of 60 years in jail was imposed on them. Incredibly, the convicts pleaded guilty to all charges. They used machetes in the attack. The most critical fact in the case was that the convicts robbed a rice trader from Tabora region a total of 3.5m/-. The atrocity incensed the Mlele District Magistrate who also ordered the robbers to take 12 lashes of the cane for their folly. This social evil, it appears, has become an incurable cancer in this country. The saddest part of this unfortunate scenario is that not only do these psychopaths deprive their victims of their hard-earned prosperity; they also maim or kill people. The current crop of armed robbers is, to say the least, ruthless, merciless, and evil. Before these times, these evil forces in this country carried out their nefarious and diabolical activities at mid-night. But now they strike even in broad daylight. The robbers in Rukwa used machetes to grab their victim’s money. However, What shocks this nation is what appears to be a large number of illegal firearms in highly dangerous hands. These include AK47s, machineguns and high velocity pistols. The Police Force has been ordered to work indefatigably to slam the brakes on criminality. President John Magufuli issued the order in Dar es Salaam in May, last year, when launching the Community Safety Initiative Programme. The president said that the Police Force should combat criminals left, right and centre with no let up and should, indeed, bring the vice to a complete halt. He was concerned that in some cases, when junior police forces corner a bunch of criminals, their superiors interfere. The president said that this move was foolhardy and should not prevail at all. He even threatened that next time he would order interfering superiors to go out and confront some of the most dangerous criminals who include armed bandits and poachers. The president was especially concerned by the stark reality that armed criminals had the temerity to storm police stations, kill police officers on duty and steal government weapons. He wondered why police officers fail to wrest weapons from bandits. A few years ago, the Police Force announced that it had succeeded in outsmarting robbers and that the canker would soon go into the annals of history. Indeed, there was a lull in banditry as the criminals lied low. However, the morons were only taking a breather. The miscreants of the night are now busy brandishing guns and committing heinous atrocities including murders. This social evil, it seems, has become an incurable cancer in this country. It is this incidence that incensed the president. The president’s concern appeared to frighten the criminals. Most of the went underground. However, after a brief lull the gun-toting criminals came out of their lair and continued to brandish their deadly weapons, shooting and killing hapless, innocent citizens. It is on record that earlier on in February, last year, suspected bandits shot and killed three people including a police officer at Majawa in Kibiti District. The gruesome incident occurred at a farm and forest products levy collection centre. The thugs left behind a confounding message on leaflets saying they did not want the levy collection point to continue operating. These were tax haters, it seemed.It was charged in the message that “poor people were being cheated out of their earnings and property. They mentioned charcoal in particular. It is incredible that upright members of the society should end levy collection effort in this fashion. This us utter criminality. This country could turn into a battle zone if all tax collectors were hunted down and shot by hoodlums who dislike paying taxes. What happened at Majawa boggles the mind, to say the least. We are told that the sixstrong gang arrived at the levy collection point at 8:00 pm riding two motorcycles and brandishing machine guns. They shot and killed an inspection officer and a security guard. When the police arrived, one of their number was killed. It is incredible that such a heinous act should be prompted by the mundane effort of collecting government levy. This social evil, it appears, has become an incurable cancer in this country. In August, last year, a gang of seven suspected criminals, who were heavily armed, ambushed a police motor vehicle that was taking police officers to sentry points and killed four of them. The grim incident occurred at Mbande in Dar es Salaam as darkness settled. The suspected hard core criminals also wounded two civilians in the heat of the moment. The assailants vanished into the dark night carting with them two or more Kalashnikov (AK47) assault rifles which are standard supply for members of the Police Force. This incident occurred at a CRDB Bank branch at Mbande. However, the attack on the police smacks of an act of terror- -not a botched robbery foray. The killers were interested in the guns the law enforcers were carrying--not the money in the bank. The Police Force vowed to leave no stone unturned in their quest to apprehend the killers and bring them to justice. They urged the wananchi who happen to have useful information on the killers to hand it to the Police Force, pronto. Indeed, members of the Police Force must have seethed with anger. Armed criminals appeared to have decided turned their guns on them. Two years ago a mob of 17 heavily armed bandits stormed Stakishari Police Station, killed four officers and stole guns