TSN Managing Editor, Dr Jim Yonazi (pictured), said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the partnership intends to implement directives given by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa recently, to all industries and manufacturers to brand their products with the barcode, to enhance easy penetration in market. “TSN as a state media company has an obligation to inform the general public on PM’s Majaliwa directives on barcodes, therefore, we decided to formulate joint partnership with GS1, an organisation mandated to register and issue barcode numbers to business entities,” he said. The memorandum of understanding (MOU) between TSN and GS1 will be signed at the end of this month and the agreement communicated to ministers for which the two organisations belong. He noted that TSN has mandatory to inform the general public about all current status of the state to implement industrialisation agenda, economy. Dr Yonazi said about 2,000 registered business operators will be published on HABARILEO newspaper to enhance promotion of local products. He said every registered trader with their barcodes plus nature of business operated and allocation will be clearly displayed on newspaper pages and through online editions and social media platforms owned by TSN, he said. “Another intention is to use HABARILEO newspaper to promote local made commodities to East and Central African market to uplift economies of member state countries and also improve living standards of people and bring all people together by exchanging commodities after informing them intensively” he added. GS1 Tanzania Chief Executive Officer, Ms Fatma Kange, said the partnership will add values to domestic products and accelerate state economy. “TSN through HABARILEO newspaper will automatically double efficiency of our traders in the country and encouraged to enter far markets for their products,” she said. She said GS1 is finalising an agreement with the Ministry of Regional Administrative and Local Government (RALG) to educate community on the importance of using barcodes. She said the partnership will enhance confidence in market by our traders and the exercise will comprise TRA through TIN number registration and companies’ registration via BRELA.