Over the next 10-15 years, Tanzania’s largest ever cohort of children and young people will enter the income generating phase of their life, bringing a change to the demographic structure of the economy. The investments made now will determine whether this unique moment in Tanzania’s history will result in accelerated economic growth and a boost to prosperity, or in a lost opportunity. The East Asian demographic dividend is believed to account for between 25 percent and 40 percent of the extraordinary economic growth the region has enjoyed. The 2012 National Population Census found that 54 percent of Tanzania’s population is under the age of 20. This means that over the next 10-15 years, Tanzania’s largest ever youth population will enter their economically productive years. The opportunity will not last long; as the baby boom generation reach retirement age they will again become dependents, relying more upon their children’s income and upon their own savings if they have any. Furthermore, while the prevailing conditions of modernization and urbanization are right for Tanzanians to increasingly choose smaller families, this is by no means a guaranteed outcome. For Tanzanians to be able to make this choice over the next 10-15 years they must be able to access quality family planning services. The entry of today’s large youth cohort into the labor market over the next 10- 15 years represents a unique opportunity. With greater access to family planning, the dependency ratio will improve, enabling adults to put more of their income towards capital investments and savings where previously income was spent meeting basic needs of a large family. And with improvements to the education system, today’s youth generation will enter the labor market well equipped to maximize their economic impact. However, without these investments the dependency ratio remains unchanged or could even worsen with a rising proportion of elderly dependents in the economy. In order to realize the opportunity of a demographic dividend, Tanzania must invest in its young people: Access to family planning for young people is key to enabling the requisite shift in the dependency ratio and to enabling them to plan and attain educational and career aspirations. And young people require quality education, to ensure that the baby boomers enter the labor market well equipped to maximize their economic impact. Furthermore, the boost to the economy created by an improved dependency ratio can be magnified by female empowerment. The close correlation between women’s education and both economic growth and lower fertility rates offers the potential to create a virtuous circle. This highlights the need to address the problem that 44 percent of Tanzania’s women fall pregnant before the age of 19, interrupting education and career objectives for many of them. But with the right investments, Tanzania’s demographic dividend can be magnified by the fact that it’s largest ever cohort of young adults will include its best educated and most economically productive generation of young women. Failure to act will not only mean missing this unique opportunity in Tanzania’s history, but could even lead to greater hardship. Tanzania’s population is growing rapidly and is expected to grow from 45 million in 2012 to 90 million by 2035.