The Vice-President of the Network of African Science Academies (NASAC), Dr Yousouf Maudarbocus, is one person, who is certainly waiting with great expectations for today’s outcome. It should be explained in the offset that the NASAC, is a merit-based consortium of science academies on the Continent, which aspires to make the “voice of science” heard by policy and decision makers within Africa and worldwide. “In this respect NASAC, from its headquarters in Nairobi- Kenya, is dedicated to enhancing the capacity of existing national science academies and champions in the case for the creation of new ones, where none exist,” Dr Maudarbocus told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ earlier in the week. Both when talking to this paper and during his opening address to delegates on Thursday morning, Dr Maudarbocus mentioned the problems and challenges that face Africa affecting women a lot more than men. He gave a few examples to support his words, which show that it’s women who have to make sure there’s water and fuel in African homes. Also, things like food and security, nutrition and health, affect women a lot more than men. Therefore, NASAC has been involved in the gender mainstreaming, which concerns striving to have some kind of equality between men and women. In this endeavour, they have had a number of conferences, of which the last one was held in Nairobi-Kenya three years ago (2015). This conference, together with others, they had held, were all in a smaller magnitude that this three-day one here, at the Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre (JNICC), which ends today (Saturday).\ “This conference is a very big one and I’m very confident that there will be some outcome with regards to women and sustainable development. As we know, we have seven SDG’S (Strategic Development Goals) but mainly our focus will be on poverty alleviation and equality. These two issues will very much put the stress on the betterment of women’s standing in Africa,” he explained. Although NASAC played a central role in bringing attention to the need of such a conference, towards improving the position of women in Africa, they were not alone in organising it. They actually organised the three-day event, in collaboration with the Tanzania Academy of Sciences (TAAS) and the French Academy of Sciences (FAS). The conference also provided an opportunity for TAAS to inform the nation of their presence, as the epicentre for promotion of excellence in the advancement and application of Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) for socio-economic development. That being the case it was important for the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ to hear what the TAAS President, Professor Esther Mwaikambo, had to say in regards to the usefulness of the conference, from a local perspective. According to Prof Mwaikambo, who was the first local woman medical doctor, this conference presented a unique platform to examine the involvement of women in the decision-making area of sustainable development. This becomes more important, she said simple because they are generally left behind in this area on the Continent. This is despite there being proof that involving women more in these areas would bring an improvement on the results obtained Added to this, she maintains that it’s very important to involve scientists, especially women, in the development programme because they do research and come up with concrete evidence to show what should be done. There are no doubts in her mind that local women are ready to participate in the development programme fully. A problem simply exists, she maintains because they’re not involved as much as they should be. “In order to be involved, women have to be educated. We need to have knowledge, skills and so on. Women are very much left behind, especially in this area of science, technology, mathematics and engineering. Many women are so scared studying any of these, just because they’re women and not because they’re not capable,” Prof Mwaikambo said. She blames the inadequacies of the existing situation to maintaining a cultural understanding that women are a weaker gender. In no way did she think men were to blame and this is why she emphasised a need for education towards rectifying this unproductive mindset