On July 2, 2017, President John Magufuli unveiled the Dar es Salaam Maritime Gateway Project (DSMGP), which aims to overhaul Port of Dar es Salaam’s infrastructure by 2023. The project, which according to the World Bank is set to cost approximately 421m US dollar, will see the construction of a new multipurpose berth at Gerezani Creek, dredging of the port’s entrance channel and intermodal improvements to both rail and road linkages. The 11-berth port, which handled 13.8m tonnes of cargo in 2016, is expected to see its handling capacity more than double to 28m tonnes per year by 2020 as a result of the upgrades, while berth wait times will be reduced from 80 hours to 30. Recently, the Ugandan High Commissioner to Tanzania, Mr Richard Kabonero argued Ugandan traders to use the Port of Dar es Salaam for businesses. He said it is vividly the port has recorded improvements in its performance. He said in recent years efforts have been made to address challenges, which were facing the business community from Uganda. The Ugandan envoy expressed commitment of his government and the government of Tanzania to ensure improved transport infrastructure so that traders in Uganda could conduct business in a cost-effective environment. In order to achieve this goal, the Ugandan government is developing a major port in Kampala and continues to improve its transport infrastructure in order to use the Central corridor effectively. “I commend the Ports Authority for the wonderful work. My President, Yoweri Museveni is very fond of the Port of Dar es Salaam, so our traders will continue to use this port and increase the share of Uganda’s cargo that passes here,“said the High Commissioner. Earlier, the TPA Director General Eng. Deusdedit Kakoko welcomed Mr Kabonero expressing the authority’s appreciation for his continued support to ensure the business community in Uganda use the Port of Dar es Salaam as their choice for shipping their cargo. He said Uganda traffic has been increasing from 2016 when the port handled 165,919 tons which almost doubled in the following year to 271,957 metric tons due to efforts taken by the Government through the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication in revamping the rail and lake transport between Mwanza and Kampala and the marketing efforts made by the TPA Management to woo Uganda Customers. “We acknowledge the efforts by his Excellency Kabonero to strengthen economic relations between TPA, his Government and Ugandan traders. We have recently witnessed many heads of diplomatic missions visiting us which signifies their quest to promote their countries’ economic relations, “said Kakoko. While in the port, the Ugandan High Commissioner toured the on-going Dar es Salaam Maritime Gateway Project (DMGP) which is being implemented and the shed dedicated for cargo from and to Uganda, dubbed“Ugandan Coffee Shed” which was built in 1966.