Dodoma regional SIDO manager Sempeho Manongi says that the grape business cluster was vital to improving partnership between farmers and larger wine producers. “The Mpunguzi grape business cluster will also promote rural industrialisation and address infrastructural requirements for grape juice plants,” said the Regional SIDO Manager at training workshop to Mpunguzi grape farmers. The training workshop, which was organised by SIDO, also saw the launch of the grape business cluster for Mpunguzi grape farmers who are under the umbrella of Mpunguzi Cooperative Society of Grape Growers (UWAZAMAM in Kiswahili abbreviation). Mr Manongi said the grape business cluster would become a significant tool to promote grape agriculture at Mpunguzi area, saying the grape business cluster would benefit from technological support for grape juice production from development partners. He said Mpunguzi small scale grape growers had played a vital role in wine production to the Dodoma-based larger wine producers, saying the larger wine producers purchase grape juice from them for wine production. Speaking at the launch of the business cluster, the Dodoma Regional Commissioner, Dr Binilith Mahenge, said Dodoma would soon start to sell bulk grape juice to larger wine producers in the country and neighbouring countries following the plan to put up grape juice plant at Chamwino. “The wine plant will provide small scale grape growers with reliable market hence to increase production of the cash crop in the region,” said the Regional Commissioner (RC) who graced the launch of the business cluster. He noted that the wine plant worth 33bn/- will be producing about 7000 tonnes of grape juice annually. Meanwhile, Dr Mahenge has directed SIDO to conduct census to Small and Medium Entrepreneurs (SMEs) in the region to enable the regional authorities easily reach them, pointing out the census result should show the location of the SMEs. “This will enable regional authorities to easily reach them in terms of support to improve their businesses,” he said.