The Swedish Ambassador to Tanzania, Ms Katarina Rangnitt, said her country is set to provide 66bn/- for the rehabilitation. She said the long time diplomatic relationship between the two countries encourages her government to continue participating and supporting Tanzania in executing various development projects, including rehabilitation of the hydro power project in Tanga region. She added that the long established diplomatic relationship and industrialization drive policy in Tanzania are the major factors that influenced the Swedish government to finance the project which will take three years until its completion. “Tanzania and Sweden have historical diplomatic ties. The two countries have been working together in various areas,” she noted. The envoy added that the Swedish government has been attracted by President John Magufuli’s industrialization policy and that to support his efforts, her government has decided to finance the project with 66bn/-. According to the envoy, energy is crucial to any country’s development programmers, including Tanzania which is gearing up to implement its industrial policy. The Tanga Regional Commissioner, Mr Martine Shigela said the rehabilitation of the power plant will help to speed up the government’s efforts in building and developing industries. He said Tanga is among important regions that need to revive and develop industries. “I would like to thank the Swedish government for agreeing to finance the project which will boost up our efforts and thus realize industrialization,” he said. Earlier, Hale Power Plant Manager, Engineer Steven Mahemba said the plant was built in 1962 by British colonial, with the capacity to generate 21MW. He said so far the plant generates between 4 and 8 MW because its machines are old and dilapidated. “The plant has been facing a lot of challenges, including poor infrastructures, which have led to poor power generation,” he said. He added “The rehabilitation of the plant will retain the power to its normal generation of 21 megawatts”.