BAGL Chief Executive Officer Maria Ramos said in a tele-conference from Johannesburg yesterday that they would revert back to the Absa Group Limited name that will be fitted into its new expansion programme developed after it was weaned from its parent company, UK-based Barclays PLC last year. “We will be Absa, not as you know it, but re-launched, represented and with identity fit for the new and forwardlooking business we are creating,” she said. “The sell down gave us opportunity to roll out the brand that reflect our identity in Africa and to unite our operations in 10 countries behind one name .” The lender, has operations in 12 African countries including Tanzania where it has Barclays Bank Tanzania and NBC Bank, former state-owned bank that was privatised to Absa Group Limited. Absa is currently the brand of the Barclays Africa Group South Africa’s business. The Absa brand has substantial equity as one of the largest banks in South Africa and enjoys recognition in many of the countries in which Barclays Africa operates under Barclays brand. BAGL has set out new growth strategy after separation from its parent company where it plans to double in size and capture at least 12 per cent of banking revenues across the continent. Growth has to be our essential part of our DNA, the driver behind our every action and a core facet of our ambition for this business,” she said. “We will stretch ourselves to develop the platform for double-digit growth and build momentum to accelerate delivery, ” “This is a critical period in which we will need to complete our separation from Plc, build and scale new capabilities, and rebuild our organisational and cultural foundations to capture growth.” The bank had earlier reported a 4 per cent rise in annual profit, thanks to a substantial decline in impairments. Normalised diluted headline EPS, the primary measure of profit in South Africa that strips out one-off items, came in at 1,837.7 cents in the year ended December compared with 1,769.4 a year earlier. Net interest income, an important gauge of lending profitability, inched up 1 per cent to 42.32 billion rand, while net interest margin was unchanged at 4.95 per cent. Credit impairments fell 20 per cent to 7.0 billion rand, Barclays Africa said. Credit impairments occur when there has been a deterioration in the creditworthiness of an individual or entit