This European event is attended by an unprecedentedly high number of African delegates from: distributors, government, hospitals, healthcare providers, investors and NGO’s. The Africa Healthcare Week includes a two-day Conference and Exhibition at the Olympia (the UK’s most famous events venue) plus a preevent day of networking and roundtable discussions at the iconic Royal Institute in London. This year, in the presence of giants, one small private hospital from Tanzania (Sanitas Hospital) simply described how it tackles problems on a daily basis to ensure that its patients have access to high quality healthcare and touched a chord in the judges at the African Health Summit who unanimously voted for Sanitas to receive “Best Hospital Care Pathway Award”. The Joint Director of Curative Services at Sanitas Hospital, Dr Omega Edwards said that this international recognition is an affirmation from respected world institutions that they are on the right track. “This greatly motivates us to proceed with all the plans we have for making Tanzania the hub of medical and surgical excellence at least in the East Africa. We have the network to make this happen. We shall find the resources. We will continue our public sector partnership by working closely with the government to help Tanzania successfully achieve the SDG (sustainable development goals). We will continue our private sector partnership with APHFTA (Association of Private Health Facilities in Tanzania) to help achieve the same goals,” he said. During his presentation, Dr David Parirenyatwa (Minister of Health Zimbabwe) assured that despite the transition of power within his government, Zimbabwe’s healthcare sector is “open for business”. Other ministers of health shared the same opinion. With 1.2 billion Africans in need of quality healthcare, it was refreshing to learn that many African countries are poised to expand their services to meet this growing demand. Known as the “Private Sector Voice of Healthcare in Africa”, Dr Amit Thakker (Chairman - Africa Healthcare Federation) waxed eloquently about the numerous opportunities for the private sector to invest. He declared that high quality healthcare must always take priority over profits. He also stated that it is very important for private investors to collaborate with local partners. It is obvious that both the public and the private sector are actively strategizing to tackle the challenge of Africa’s poor access to healthcare. The award that Sanitas Hospital received among other things was for being a shining example of how to provide high quality healthcare despite being in a low resource setting. At Sanitas, the staff is committed to providing high quality care. It is not surprising that this hospital received 4 out of 5 stars from a recent assessment from the Tanzania Ministry of Health. Sanitas Hospital also takes pride in providing ongoing continuing medical education to its entire staff . Sanitas Hospital invites specialists from the international community not only to provide care for the people of Tanzania right here in Tanzania, but also to provide education for local healthcare providers. For example, specialists from India as well as the USA recently provided care for patients with lymphedema while at the same time they trained nurses and physical therapists (not just Sanitas Hospital Staff) to provide the same level of care. Take Dr Subramania Iyer, for instance, the superman of Asia who has done five successful bilateral hand transplants in India is the principal attraction at Sanitas Hospital during his regular visits. He has given hope and inspiration to a number of Tanzanians who were scarred for life by burn injury deformities, congenital deformities and various other conditions that could not be managed by any health facility in the country by performing incredibly subsidized surgeries upon them right here at Sanitas Hospital. In 2015 one such patient was Dora, a school teacher stigmatized by the infliction of lymphedema. Lymph is a thin, clear fluid that circulates throughout the body to remove wastes, bacteria and other substances from tissues. Edema is the buildup of excess fluid. So lymphedema occurs when too much lymph collects in any area of the body. If lymphedema develops in people who’ve been treated for breast cancer, it usually occurs in the arm and hand, but sometimes it affects the breast, underarm, chest, trunk and/or back. Sanitas sponsored Dora’s visit to Amrita Hospital where Dr Iyer is the chair of reconstructive surgeries. Over there Dora was given a new lease on life with the application of manual decongestive massages and special bandages to reroute her lymphatic fluid flows and to soften her elephantiasis leg that was later operated upon to bring it to near normal size giving Dora a brand new lease on life. Dr Iyer then introduced Sanitas to one American expert in the management of lymphedema, Michael Alatriste who travelled to Tanzania at his own expense and also arranged BSN Corporation (USA) to make significant donations of these special bandages to Sanitas. Nine patients received specialized treatment by Michael who also roped in nurses and physiotherapists from Sanitas, Aga Khan Hospital and a couple of other local hospitals and trained them on providing CDT (combined decongestive therapy) and special bandaging to reroute the flow of lymphatic fluids and to reduce the edema. All this was done totally free of cost. Two patients were then offered surgery also at no cost. Other renowned doctors include Dr Gautam Kodikal, orthopedic surgeon of international fame at Apollo Spectra in Bangalore, visits Sanitas on a regular basis and has done nineteen successful knee replacements at Sanitas in addition to scores of tibia corrections; sports injury repairs and arthroscopy surgeries. Dr Aditya Pradhan, the urologist from BLK Hospital, New Delhi (who is presently at Sanitas as you are reading this) also visits regularly and has performed numerous TURP (transurethral resection of prostate); constructive corrections; hypospadias and various other laparoscopic surgeries right here at Sanitas Hospital. Dr Jagat Deep, well known gynaecologist from Birgunj Hospital in Nepal has helped several Tanzanian women who could not get pregnant despite trying all other methods including IVF become mothers. One of them is now pregnant with her second child!! Dr Edwards said that they feel humbled by the international recognition for simply taking good care of people and believes that in having achieved this, Sanitas Hospital has done Tanzania proud!