He said the iron industries will easy the procurement of iron related products within the country instead of importing them. Dr Magufuli, speaking at Nyasubi area in Shinyanga region’s Kahama District where he officially launched the Kahama Oil Mills, said the well performing iron manufacturing industries will support the country on the ongoing construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR). “I am glad that you have expressed interest to invest in iron processing industry in the country…ensure high quality of your products to help the country get rid of importing the products,’’ he said. President Magufuli pledged to offer free land to investors determined to invest in iron processing factories, saying he will equally look on the modalities to adjust the import duty on the products. “I was yesterday speaking to TRA (Tanzania Revenue Authority) Commissioner General on the issue... we want more investments in iron factories,’’ he noted. The Head of State further directed contractors executing various projects in the country to use the domestically manufactured products at the expense of imports. He directed the Water and Irrigation Minister and his Permanent Secretary to ensure that before thinking of importing water pumps, the ministry should explore all options of procuring the materials from within the country to boost economy. The president who is on a marathon working tour of various regions made stops over on his way from Kahama to Singida region as curious residents barricaded his motorcade to have a glimpse of their leader and used the platform to air their grievances. He was stopped by residents at Kagongwa area in Kahama District and Igunga District where he addressed residents who had expressed their grievances. Dr Magufuli told Kahama residents that his government will continue providing social services as it had capacity to execute them. “We have billions of shillings in our reserve to execute our projects without relying on donors,” he said. President Magufuli further directed all top leaders to ensure that they work on peoples’ problems as well as protect the local industries to achieve the country’s industrialisation agenda.