Dr Kikwete said that ocean economy is the fastest emerging economic sector with enormous trade potential and it was time high the Zanzibar government diversified its economy by investing on a sustainable blue economy. The ex-President stated this at the meeting between the management of the Institute of Marine Sciences and students at the institute’s new premises located at Buyu area, Magharibi B district in Unguja on Tuesday. He said Zanzibar has massive potential of developing the blue economy and become a big centre for seafood, and insisted on the need to utilize the enormous benefits offered by maritime resources, including deep sea fishing. Dr Kikwete recalled that seafood has high market potential across the world and urged for local fishermen’s empowerment in setting up deep sea ventures, which can provide bountiful harvest for the fishers. He said Zanzibar could turn itself into world’s leading fishing centre if the Island full exploits the potential of the fisheries industries, which would benefit the country’s economy and change people’s lives. The Fourth Phase President also underscored the importance of enhancing the protection and sustainable development of the coastal and marine environment for the sustainability and continues harvest of ocean resources. “The impacts of climate change have had massive negative effects on many Isles, for instance the Maziwe Island in Mainland Tanzania has disappeared, alongside turtles,” he said. The Minister of State in the Second Vice President’s Office, Mr Mohamed Aboud, admitted that Zanzibar was yet to tap into the maritime resources despite the fact that it is surrounded by the Indian Ocean. He was however optimistic that through the Institute of Maritime Science, the government will come up better ways of exploiting marine resources,insisting the blue economy was among top priority sectors and the future of Zanzibar’s economy. The Director of the Institute of Marine Sciences and Technology Dr Margareth Kyewalyanga, on her side informed the chancellor that the institute was facing financial constraints, which hampered its operations. The institute is in need of funds to purchase a vessel for research works, improve the institute’s Pangani centre, finalize the construction of its building in Zanzibar and repair the institute’s debilitated communication infrastructures, she revealed. The IMS director said despite the financial and infrastructure challenges, the institute has continued to produce best graduates in various marine science professions, and most of them are employed.