With a disaster free country, according to Works, Transport and Communications Minister, Prof Makame Mbarawa, citizens are able to participate fully in economic activities. Speaking at a news conference in Dodoma, yesterday, as Tanzania joined the rest of the world to commemorate the World Meteorological Day (WMD), the Minister asked Tanzanians to make use of weather forecasts information. “I pose the challenge to the public to be smarter in the use of weather and climate services issued by the Tanzania Meteorological Agency (TMA), for the country’s climate scientists to enhance research and improve the quality of weather and climate forecasts,” said Prof Mbarawa. He added that should the public make close follow up on weather forecasts, then they can be in a position to plan for their economic activities, shy away from disasters as well as safety issues. However, Prof Mbarawa said the country will keep on facing challenges of climate and weather disasters should there be no clear focus on environmental protection agenda. “We can keep taking precaution on forecasted weather disasters like damaged infrastructure and sewerage maintenance, but, these are short term, as with the increasing population and human activities, we need to take care of our environment protection,” said Prof Mbarawa. The Director General of TMA, Dr Agnes Kijazi, said they have equipment which makes their forecast reliable and the government has promised to make it operate efficiently. “As for the aviation industry, our forecast is 100 per cent correct as we issue after every 30 minutes, but for weather our accuracy isbetween 80 to 90 per cent depending on a number of issues in climate matters,” she said. She added that they are working closely with key departments dealing with disasters and other agricultural related sectors by keeping them updated so that they take the needed measures. In Dar es Salaam, TMA commemorated the WMD by cleaning the Tandale kwa Tumbo water bank in Kinondoni District which is the dirtiest in the city. According to TMA Director of Forecasting Services, Dr Hamza Kabelwa, his agency decided to commemorate this year’s WMD by cleaning various areas countrywide, which have been contributing to several disasters in an event of serious weather conditions. The cleaning exercise at Tandale was jointly done by TMA staff in collaboration with the office of Kinondoni District Executive Director (DED). Every year on March 23, Tanzania joins other world meteorological organisations to commemorate WMD. Usually, the celebrations are accompanied by a theme that aims at raising awareness to all weather and climate sensitive sectors. This year’s theme is, ‘Weather- ready, Climate-smart.’ According to Dr Kijazi, the theme expresses the importance of weather and climate services to various sectors, including agriculture and food security, fisheries and livestock, health, energy, water resources and transport.