This was said in Dar es Salaam yesterday during the fourth National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) Policy Dialogue on hospital mortality for impact monitoring and programmatic evidence-based decision in the country. According to the study, an assessment of 39 hospitals in the country was carried out and established that recorded data on causes of death are poorly organised and incomplete. “Knowing the burden and trends of the leading causes of death is critically important for monitoring the health of the population and identifying priorities For this matter, a strong health data governance framework is necessary for the government to enable hospital mortality data use to improve health care and quality performance,” noted the report. It is established in the report that data was relatively more available from zonal and specialised hospitals than from district hospitals. In some of the hospitals, registers, reporting forms and other records were not properly taken care of, misplaced, destroyed or thrown away. The report further reveals that there was minimal use of standard disease classification, poor adherence to standards in classification of disease and mortality data are rarely analysed, monitored and utilised. The Chief Medical Officer, Prof Muhammad Kambi, observed that the study has extremely been useful for it has provided key information which will help in terms of monitoring. It has also identified priority information that will help the country to uncover the burden and leading cause of death trends, distribution and the causes. “It has opened our eyes in terms of data management and revealed the top five key causes of death in the country,” said Prof Kambi. Prof Kambi identified cardio respiratory failure as the number one cause of death in the country, followed by malaria, HIV, anemia and neonatal and maternal complications. “Certainly, there is a shift in trends in terms of the burden of the disease and non-communicable diseases has had, an increasingly significant burden for morbidity and mortality rate and need to be addressed. Although several initiatives have been taken to tackle the disease, they are still a challenge and the burden of treatment is also big,” he pointed out. He said in order for the country to curb these trends, people need to practise healthy living lifestyle, conduct regular health check-ups and do exercises, among other things