The committee was concerned that the road networks have greatly contributed to social and economic losses owing to a series of road accidents and crushes. “Road infrastructures are critical to the economy … in your capacity as the nation’s roads agency you must come up with a clear strategy on ways that you can protect or offer solution to these problems,” Mr Moshi Kakoso, the Committee Chairman, said at the end of launching of the 259km- Manyoni-Itigi-Tabora highway. The new infrastructure is under construction, during which it would be upgraded to tarmac level to connect Singida region with its neighbouring Tabora region. The deputy minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Mr Elias Kwandikwa explained that the ongoing construction works seek to open up the far central region to the rest of the country. He says there were critical economic activities within the region, but then its road network was holding back progress. “This will influence overall economic growth in the region,” he said. He detailed that the government had since divided the construction works into three categories, the first one being the 89.5km Manyoni- Itigi-Chaya and the 85km- Tabora-Nyahua stretch whose construction is complete. The third phase is the Chaya-Nyahua, another 85.4km whose construction is ongoing. Tanroads Singida Regional Manager, Engineer Leonard Kapongo and Tabora Regional Manager, Engineer Damian Ndabalinzi assured the committee of their commitments to ensuring the general public was aware of the importance of protecting the road infrastructure. Eng Ndabalinzi said, “… we’re working around the clock to ensure not just motorists but also pedestrians understand their roles in protecting the road. “This is for the benefit of both people in Singida and Tabora regions,” Eng Kapongo added. The infrastructure committee is now scrutinising government projects overseen by the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication. After Singida and Tabora, the committee is scheduled to tour similar projects in Kigoma.