Under its One Belt One Road initiative, China aims at promoting economic integration with other countries in the world as it seeks to promote competitiveness in the global economy. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Prof Elisante Ole Gabriel, made the revelation yesterday after a meeting with the delegation of Chinese investors led by the President of the association’s Oversees Co-operation Development, Mr Huang Zhaojin. Prof Ole Gabriel mentioned the five priority areas as pharmaceutical and medical equipment factories, agro-processing and agribusiness, setting up of industrial parks as well as manufacturing of industrial machines. The list also includes setting up of industries to produce alcohol (particularly spirits and wines), making of furniture in addition to processing of miner- From MARC NKWAME in Arusha THE United Nations is exhuming the case of tragic death of its former Secretary-General, the late Dag Hammarskjöld, who was killed in a plane crash while travelling to the Democratic Republic of Congo, nearly 60 years ago. An official statement from the United Nations, which was made available here reveals that former Tanzanian Chief Justice, Judge Mohammed Chande will resume his role as head of the investigation team over Mr Hammarskjöld death, which caused uproar around the globe, as many suspected foul play. “United Nations Secretary- General, António Guterres is pleased to confirm that, pursuant to General Assembly resolution als such as gold and copper in addition to gemstones. The Chinese delegation is in the country for a four-day visit aimed at exploring investment opportunities“In general, we have identified ten areas of investment but we have agreed to start with the five priority areas, whose implementation should be fasttracked,” he explained, noting that the visit by the delegation follows a meeting held in China in December, last year. Adding, “Upon return to China, the delegation will prepare business proposals in one-month which they will present to the government of Tanzania. After that, we will hold meetings and agree on the way forward.” Yesterday’s meeting was also attended by the Director General of Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TanTrade), Mr Edwin Rutageruka and Director General of Export Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) Col (Rtd) Joseph Leon Simbakalia The PS assured the Chinese investors and businesspersons that Tanzania was committed to improving business and investment environment to facilitate the industrialisation agenda being spearheaded by the Fifth Phase government. Prof Ole Gabriel further told the delegation that their investments in Tanzania will have access to the market of over 165 million people in the six East African countries of Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and South Sudan. “The government of Tanzania will accord you maximum cooperation in your undertakings to achieve industrial economy,” the PS assured the investors. The head of the Chinese delegation, Mr Zhaojin was confident that the trade cooperation will be successful and fruitful for the benefit of the two parties. “We have confidence in the Fifth Phase Government under President John Magufuli on its industrialisation drive and the fight against corruption,” Mr Zhaojin stated. He was highly positive that Chinese advanced technology and machinery, to be employed in Tanzania, will play a significant role in boosting productivity in the industrial sector. “We realise that there are adequate resources in terms of raw materials to support setting up of the envisaged investments in the country,” he stated. Mr Zhaojin told the PS and other officials at the meeting that his association will organise its members to take part in the Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair in July, this year. Latest figures indicate that trade volume between Tanzania and China is hovering at around 4.6 billion US dollars annually, as both countries.