Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC), Augustine Ollomi named the suspects as Domician Ishengoma (36)-Village Chairman for Nkwenda, Florian Philbert (31) – a teacher at Kakanja Primary School, Jastin Jackson (26) a resident of Kalukwanzi village and Joseph Kabunga (34), a resident of Nkwenda village. The four suspects are alleged to have aided several aliens, refugees and non-citizens to get registration in the ongoing NIDA registration exercise. According to Mr Ollomi, two other suspects had their documents forged, naming them as Maazimio Petro (31), a resident of Nyarutuntu village and Jonas Petro ((32), a resident of Nkwenda village. He also said two Rwandese nationals were helping police investigations after registering themselves as genuine citizens. He named them as Banzabugabo Jamal (27) and Daniel Byamungu (38) from Kakerere village. “We are working very closely with the regional immigration department. Investigations are still underway and the suspects will be arraigned when investigations are completed,” he said. The National Identification Authority (NIDA), established in July 2008, is charged with, among other things, the task of determining citizenship of individuals and registering identity information, provide identification documents and manage and establish an ID database. All applicants are given special NIDA registration forms. The forms help the applicant provide the information required for the exercise. Generally, it includes information relating to biographic and biometric data. The identification and registration of persons is considered to be a catalyst because planning socio-economic growth is a complex exercise that demands detailed and accurate information on many aspects of life. This enables the government to have a credible data base with important information about people to be able to plan properly the socio-economic development of the people and the nation as a whole. Meanwhile, the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), is holding a Loans Development Officer under the Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO), for allegedly demanding and soliciting for a 500,000/- bribe. Kagera Regional PCCB Chief, Joseph Mwaiswelo named the suspect as Nasaka Kanguna. “Sometime in July last year, an entrepreneur (name withheld) applied for a 5m/- loan from SIDO, however, Kanguna demanded a 500,000/- bribe to enable the applicant get the loan. Nevertheless, the applicant did not have the full amount, opting to pay by installment. On March 12, this year, PCCB officials were tipped and caught the accused red-handed after pocketing 99,000/, being part of the 500,000/- he had demanded,” he said, adding that the suspect will be arraigned when investigations are completed.