According to the envoy, the five-year programme (2014- 2019) is implemented with special emphasis being placed on women, children and vulnerable groups. He was officiating the DANIDA Consultative Committee for Development Research, thematic Sessions on “Results of Health Sector Research’’ and “Women’s Health,’’ held at the Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH). Mr Jensen said the government of Denmark had been supporting the health sector in Tanzania for many decades since 1994. “This support is provided as a long-term HSPS which is now in phase five of the support in the health sector and our support is provided through the health sector priorities reflected in the health sector strategic plan,’’ he said. The Danish envoy further said there was a need to explore the causes and effects of Non Communicable Diseases (NCDs) in Tanzania and come up with appropriate solutions. “For example, we need to know how to address the issues of cultural practices, taboos and norms that contribute to increased incidence of NCDs and think about appropriate policy decisions and actions,’’ she said. He said the country should engage competent researchers through approved agencies that would come up with plausible findings and recommendations that would be accepted by health stakeholders. Researchers convened at COSTECH headquarters in Dar es Salaam on Thursday to share presentations on research findings which were carried out in Tanzania with support from the government of Denmark through DANIDA Fellowship Centre (DFC). DANIDA provides support to a number of researchers through DFC, including some universities in Tanzania through Building Stronger Universities (BSU). Mr Jensen also emphasised that there was a dire need for evidence- based data from researchers that can be used to reduce a high maternal death in Tanzania, which is increasing despite the efforts being undertaken in different interventions. “The research findings confirm the challenges that Tanzania like other developing countries were facing on resolving the double burden of both communicable and NCDs, therefore, efforts were needed to address these challenges, to rescue depletion of the resources in the health sector,’’ said the ambassador. COSTECH Acting Director General, Prof Mohammed Sheikh commended the government of Denmark for selecting Tanzania among few developing countries, including Ghana, to work together on Research and Development initiatives. Prof Sheikhm who is the Director of Physical Sciences at COSTECH, said this research collaboration framework came at the right time while the nation promotes industrialisation policy. “All the funded research projects will immensely support the country’s development agenda through knowledge generation, innovation and technology promotion and most importantly technology and knowledge transfer and exchange between Denmark and Tanzania,’’ he said.