TPSF Executive Director, Godfrey Simbeye told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the foundation and the entire business community appreciates the chairman’s concern and reaction to complaints raised by members of the private sector during the meeting. “It was a fruitful meeting. The issues complained about were not policy issues. They are the kind of issues that have been begging for right and timely decisions and empowerment. This is why the president was anguished by the complaints while his efforts are directed towards solving people’s problems, like provision of water, electricity and good roads,” Mr. Simbeye said. He added there were signs that the insensitive state bureaucratic and persistent red tape would go, adding that the private sector looks forward to see tax legislation being repealed so that it does not suppress members of the business community and hold back their efforts. “We talked about this bureaucracy. A person simply decides not to take action, introduces delays and does not give comprehensible explanation. The president listened to everything that was being said. Finally, he said everything must be tackled by civil servants in one week and provide answers within that period. I have never witnessed such a beautiful decision like this one,” he said. The Permanent Secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy and Coordination), Professor Faustine Kamuzora, said the PMO will do whatever is in its power to ensure business environment promotes doing business and investments. “ The president’s directive is quite clear because everything is in the blueprint. We are doing our best to ensure all the economic activities are advantageous to the nation and there is good business environment. If necessary, outdated policies and regulations will have to go,” the PS said. He said the population is swelling quickly and as the economy grows, market enlarges too, adding that technology is also growing and the number of able young people is rising, saying that if capable young people will be empowered they will make good entrepreneurs.