EALA Speaker Martin Ngoga has said that nations must determine how to eliminate the causes that trigger refugee crises. Mr Ngoga was addressing the 138th assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), a global body of parliamentarians, in Geneva, recently. Indeed, involuntary migration and refugee crises are a stinging problem in various parts of the world, including Tanzania. In fact, the presence of thousands of refugees on Tanzanian soil poses a monumental problem to the nation. Their arrival from neighbouring countries pushes Tanzanian financial resources to alarming proportions. Some refugees cause social disturbances. A large number of them often enter the country as illegal immigrants using unlawful entry points. Many remain in hideouts for years. These are normally sought, apprehended and herded into refugee camps where they receive generous treatment despite their folly. So, Tanzania is compelled to take pity on all these needy souls, who often flee violence or other forms of conflict in their countries. It is on record that Tanzania has done almost what other countries have never done in helping refugees. Surprisingly, some of these movers are economic migrants looking for prosperity. At independence Tanzania received its first group of refugees from Rwanda, who were running away from persecution and terror. Another group arrived in the 1970s from Burundi, escaping state-inspired terror. More refugees followed in subsequent years from Rwanda, DR Congo, Burundi and Somalia following massive violence in their countries. They were all received, protected and offered social services. A significant number of old case refugees from Rwanda, Burundi and Somalia were later naturalized to become Tanzanian citizens. But Tanzania has often paid a price for hosting refugees. Some refugees became a source of instability in their host localities and environmental degradation. In yesteryears, some refugees had to be flushed out after outliving their welcome or for causing mayhem in Tanzanian villages. Much as Tanzania is praised for its generosity and spirit of humanity, we should not forget that it cannot sustain endless influx of refugees who put a strain on resources. The international community and other stakeholders in the situation should be aware of this. It should be the responsibility of everybody to ensure that the problem of refugees is solved by avoiding situations that generate refugees. Wars and other forms of violence are responsible for generating refugees and they should be avoided at any cost.