According to World Health Organization (WHO), better health is central to human happiness and well-being. It also makes an important contribution to economic progress, as healthy populations live longer, are more productive, and save more. For some years now, the government of Tanzania has shown great commitment on fighting infant and maternal mortality. Various local and international organization have been siding with the government through the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children to ensure improvement of health services in the country. The Canadian government has been funding a project MBM that aims at improving health services among Tanzanians in particular women and children. The deputy project director, Dr Wilson Kitinya said the project aims at improving knowledge in the health sector. He added that the project also helps to improve skills laboratory, which is potential in offering the nursing and midwifery training courses. The project is funded by the Canadian government through its Global Affairs Department and implemented by Jhpiego in collaboration with AMREF Health Africa and Canadian Association of Midwives (CAM)/Tanzania Midwives Association (TAMA). Commenting on the importance of MBM project, the Bukumbi Nurses and Midwives Training Centre’s principle, Ms Lydia Chuwa said the project has helped them to learn the best ways of providing quality education to their students. He said teachers and students have been trained on how to make assessment and that such programmes have helped both teachers and students to maintain qualities. The Bukwimba Hospital Matron, Sr Annastazia Salla said things have changed since the introduction of MBM project at her hospital. She said Bukwimba hospital is a faith based organization, and that there have been limited training opportunities for its staff. She said her hospital has benefitted by ending its staff for training on various areas. According to Sr Salla one of the hospital officials has been trained on vacuum extraction while another attended trainings on Manual vacuum aspiration (MVA). “Before the training, we were being forced to call doctors to perform the procedures when such emergencies happened. But with this support, at our nurses have acquired the precious knowledge, which enables them to attend to patients when it is necessary. A success story on vacuum extraction process Sr Didas-Merry Mushi narrates that she used to fear the procedure and most midwives believed only doctors could do it. However, after attending Basic Emergency Obstetric Care training (Bemoc), Sr Mushi became confident and started to help women at the hospital. “It was not an easy thing, when I got the opportunity to attend the training, I said to myself that this is the golden opportunity…I concentrated and managed to understand the process,” she said. Sr Mushi said in October, 2017, she managed to help a woman who had failed to deliver after struggling for a long time. “We normally do that when natural delivery is not possible, this is when instrumental delivery may be attempted,” she said. She said the woman was on her ninth pregnancy and that the baby was already full directed but could not come out. “Her head was stuck somewhere, therefore the only way was to apply vacuum extraction,” she said. She added: “After realising the situation, I immediately called my assistance, we informed the mother and started to prepare her for the process,” Sr Mushi said the process took only two minutes and the baby was safely delivered. “I was very happy because I managed to serve the mother and the infant from the danger, I thank Jhpiego and all other stakeholders for providing us with this crucial training,” she said. MVA success story Manual vacuum aspiration (MVA) is a safe and effective method of abortion that involves evacuation of the uterine contents by the use of a hand-held plastic aspirator. It is appropriate for treatment of incomplete abortion for uterine sizes up to 12 weeks from the last menstrual period (including miscarriage, spontaneous abortion and removal of retained products from an induced abortion), first-trimester abortion (menstrual regulation) and endometrial biopsy. Ms Mangalena Lwamba, a registered nurse from 2007 said she attended BEMOC training in Shinyanga. According to Ms Lwamba, it has been easier for her to attend to women with problems after attending the training. “So far, attending to women with such complications is no longer a challenge, I have been well trained on how to face the situation,” she narrates. She added: “I recently attended to a woman who was bleeding for two days. When she was brought to hospital, the only way to save her life was to apply MVA… and we succeeded,” The Hospital’s matron, Sr Salla said so far the number of deaths for women and children has gone down compared to the previous years. She added that the number of women who delivered at the hospital has also increased in the recent years. She said between 90 and 120 women delivered babies at her hospital every month.