According to a statement released by the information, public education and communications office of Parliament, MPs are scheduled to resume their committee meetings ahead of the budget sessions scheduled for next month. “After nominations of members of parliament of different committees, the members will vote for the committee leaders filling the position of the committee chair and vice chairperson,” read part of the statement. The election is part of the parliamentary standing orders section 116 (10) of 2016. National Assembly Speaker Mr Job Ndugai named 16 committees in late 2015 shortly after being elected to the top legislative post. He named the sector committees to include, Agriculture, Livestock and Water Committee, Infrastructure Development Committee, Energy and Minerals Committee, Industries, Trade and Environment Committee, Constitution and Legal Affairs Committee, Administration and Local Governments Committee, Social Development and Services Committee, Lands, Natural Resources and Tourism Committee, Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Committee, and Subsidiary Legislations Committee. According to the speaker, the parliamentarians will also vote for heads of crosscutting committees that include Budget Committee, HIV and AIDS Affairs Committee as well as watchdog committees that include Public Accounts Committee, Local Authorities Accounts Committee and Public Investments Committee. MPs will also vote for the post of Chairperson and Vice Chair for Parliamentary Privileges, Ethics and Powers Committee. It was not clear whether the outgoing chairpersons will seek a second term or will relinquish their titles after serving for 30 months. But a dozen MPs spotted in the capital yesterday some in the National Assembly grounds were not ready to make comments, merely saying that they were just around for registration. As the committee sessions kick off today, MPs are set to deliberate on the government’s 2018/19 Financial Year budget estimates. PAC and LAAC committees will this week tour a number of development projects, to monitor execution of the government’s development plan as well as expenditure of public funds. “The MPs will also review the government’s investment report,” the press statement added.