By yesterday, 13 residents were undergoing treatment in different health institutions after allegedly being bitten by the dogs, besides an initial report that about 104 people within the same locality had been bitten and reportedly injured after thedogs descended on them between January and March, this year. Moshi Municipal Director, Mr Michael Mwandezi, addressing the media here yesterday pointed out that some of the dogs may transmit the disease to their victims. “There are dogs roaming in the streets and are said to be sources of rabies and whenever they meet people in the streets, they bite them. Currently, there are seven victims admitted to the KCMC Super Referral Hospital, four at the St. Joseph Hospital and two at the Pasua Health Centre,” he said. However, he urged all dog owners to ensure that they tie them including seeing into it that all are vaccinated and their records kept, further saying that it is a criminal offence to let a dog bite an innocent person. Without going into details, Mr Mwandezi noted that the council’s authorities have taken some immediate action(s) aimed at eliminating the menace in the area. On his side, Moshi Municipal Medical Officer, Dr Somoka Mwakapalala, said 91 people were reportedly attacked and bitten by the dogs in the municipality between January and March, this year. He said their past record indicate that in 2016 a total of 434 people were bitten by the dogs and in 2017 about 564 residents also claimed to have been attacked and maimed by the dogs. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), rabies virus is contracted in wounds, such as scratches inflicted from an infected animal or by direct contact with mucosal surfaces, like a bite from an infect animal. Once inside the body, the virus replicates in the bitten muscle and gains access to motor endplates and motor axons to reach the central nervous system. The virus then travels to the central nervous system, where clinical symptoms later reveal a change into an acute encephalitis or meningoencephalitis. The incubation period tend to take an average of two to three months, before death occurs to the victim within two weeks after the appearance of the clinical symptoms if intensive care is not sought. An average of 60 000 people die from rabies annually and more than 15 million of them receive post-exposure prophylaxis every year in the world.