For a nation that has attained more than 50 years of independence and working it’s way towards industrialisation, to say the least we have worked hard to make Tanzania a world known natural and wildlife tourist attraction destination. Tourism is denoted as an activity conducted by people travelling to several destinations for recreation, exploration and experiencing other forms of leisure for a considerable amount of time. This activity has been taking place for decades in Tanzania and has a significant value to the economy. Tourism as one of the leading national income earning sector has evolved over time, since the 1960’s after independence the world has been curious of our natural endowed heritages. For the past two decades, we have seen a robust growth of tourist trekking into our landscapes and exploring the rich plains of Serengeti and biodiversity of Ngorongoro Conservation Area. Tourism involves a bunch of things that operate together to deliver a swift output, hence it is suitable for it to be an industry because it qualifies to be one whereby: people (tourists and hosts), activities (hiking, safari expeditions, and et cetera), tourism organisations and companies are all part of a huge system that executes tasks towards delivering high-end services. Tanzania Invest says that tourism industry generates approximately USD 2 billion which accounts 25 percent of the foreign exchange earnings, giving out 600,000 jobs and 2 million benefits indirectly from this fruitful activity. The industry has managed to bring in more than a million visitors just in 2016, due to the stability of the tourism environment these numbers are expected to rise. Tanzania has 7 international acknowledged heritage sites (3 natural, 3 cultural and 1 mixed) which elevate the tourism industry to higher levels each year. The ruins of Songomnara and Kilwa, Kondoa Rock-Art Sites, Selous Game Reserve, Serengeti National Park, Stone Town of Zanzibar and Kilimanjaro National Park contribute to the rise of tourism receipts, international recognition, and accolades within the tourism sector. Tanzania Tourism Board recognizes the robust improvement of air access for tourists, the establishment of luxurious hotels and mended infrastructures which facilitate smooth safari circuits to have contributed to the advancement of the tourism sector. Furthermore, Tanzania has managed to maintain its status regional wide despite the stiff competition engaged by African countries with developed tourism industries such as South Africa and Egypt. However, we also face challenges from Botswana, Kenya, and Morocco all these nations are developing their tourism industry just like us. Therefore, viable and effective strategies should be put in place to downplay all hindrances that rob us plenty of tourism receipts. The 2016 UN World Tourism Organisation Report cited Tanzania, China, Poland and Canada to have the highest number of visiting tourists. I believe we can do much better than this if we ought to rejuvenate other tourists attraction located all over the country. Apart from taking tourist to see The Big Five, we can divert our resources to enable tourists to trek within the ritual forest of Iganzo Mbeya, take tourists for hiking in Mbeya mountains, enjoy the hot springs and learn much about Tanzania history from the Colonial old city of Sokomatola. This will diversify resources by creating wealth generation through tour guiding, petty business, and luxurious services provision. The tourism industry can draw millions of foreign currency by exposing the uniqueness of Mvomero District particularly Mkingu Conservation Area which is rich in biodiversity with a lot of endemic species, to sweeten the pot the area has human beings co-existing with nature making the area more unique. There are 4 species of birds and 32 vertebrates that do not exist anywhere in the world except in that very District. In addition to that tourist can also enjoy the exotic Lusingizo waterfalls (50 meters high), all these yet to be widely known to the international tourism audience. The industry should invest time and resources to rejuvenate Kitulo National Park (or God’s Garden as locals call it), it has one among the world’s wonderful natural gardens, landscapes and new species of primate known locally as Kipunji. Kitulo has not received enough attention from the tourism industry stakeholders and the ministry also, in 2016 it had on 409 visitors. Kitulo has plenty of wild orchids, 350 various vascular plants, 400 plant species and 45 varieties of terrestrial orchids which erupt into a magnificent nature display during rainy seasons. Furthermore, it is a resting place for the intercontinental migrating birds during periods of the year on their way to Europe. For a country with these sites, it is a crime that the industry has not yet upgraded to the top list. Marketing, branding and incorporating sustainable tourism mechanisms are the required forces to be in play for the tourism industry excellence. Tanzania has been known for having marvelous attractions. Promoting Kitulo National Park to the international tourism audience would help push forward the industry by invigorating companies, organization and people within the industry to take lead and press forward from being a developing industry to a developed one. We can earn more tourism receipts from grabbing tourists from Mwanza city (on their way to Mara-Serengeti) taking them to Bujora and Kageye to witness the Sukuma people rich traditions and learn about the history of The Great Ngw’ana Malundi. The landscape and naturally crafted rocks of Mwanza can suffice to earn decent foreign currencies. I urge all major tourism players bring their minds and resources to elevate this potential industry. *Padili Mikomangwa is an environmentalist.