Illegal villages? This is an incredible and rather shocking scenario. The Deputy Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Mr Japhet Hasunga, has said that even public institutions have offices in some of the illegal villages inside forest reserves. He says that the invasion of the forests is a result of lack of collective responsibility. Invasion of forests is common among farmers who trespass into restricted land to open up farms for food crops and cattle keepers who graze their animals on the, invariably, lush fodder. However, the presence of illegal villages in forests is an intriguing phenomenon. We are told that already 80 per cent of the illegal villages whose fringes encroach into protected forests, game reserves and national parks have been identified and an amicable effort to solve the land dispute is underway. But illegal villages that are located in Rungwa River Reserve and Inyonga Forest Reserve, for example, are particularly difficult to tackle because the wananchi there have established permanent settlements, complete with local government offices. It is imperative to point out here that every person has a duty to preserve the country’s natural resources, including forests, as per Article 27 )1) of the Constitution of United Republic of Tanzania. No one should settle, graze cattle for farm in reserved forests. And, furthermore, under sections 18 (2) and 21 (1) of the Wild Conservation Act No. 5 it is prohibited to feed animals, or conduct any other human activity inside a National Park, Forest Reserve or Game Reserve, let alone establishing a permanent settlement. The government should not tolerate seeing invaders felling trees and burning the forest to clear patches of land for agriculture, livestock rearing or setting up homes. This situation adds up to the number of prevalent conflicts over land, which keep escalating. The government, under close supervision from President John Magufuli, has already resolved more than 690 land conflicts out of a whopping total of 1,378. Land conflicts are a confounding scenario in this country. In urban centres, conflicts over land pit developers against each other or the government. In rural Tanzania misunderstandings over land often see farmers square off for a fight against cattle keepers. Others trigger squabbles between investors and villagers. Land conflicts keep escalating despite state efforts to shoot them down. Since the year 2004, for example, a total of 117 land councils have met to find solutions to 103,000 conflicts. However, farmers and cattle keepers are entitled to legal land use. After all, we all need the presence of farmers as much as we need livestock keepers. While farmers till the land and grow food and cash crops, the cattle keepers produce the equally important cattle meat and milk. But, indeed, they should keep out of conserved forests.