“I have been deeply saddened by the loss of the 26 people in the road carnage... we have lost a big number of fellow Tanzanians and workforce of the nation,” President Magufuli said in his condolence message to RC Evarist Ndikilo. He added: “I am joining mourners during these trying times to grieve for the loss of their loved ones...please convey my condolences to the families, relatives and friends who have been robbed of their loved ones.” In the message that was issued through the Directorate of Presidential Communications, President Magufuli wished quick recovery for the eight passengers who sustained injuries and prayed for the dead to rest in eternal peace. He directed the state organs entrusted with road safety to investigate the source of the accident and take appropriate actions. The accident occurred at around 9pm on Saturday after a mini-bus, Toyota Hiace, with registration number T676 DGK was involved in a head-on collision with a Scania lorry, with registration number T223 CZB and its trailer with number T371 CBT at Mwalusembe in Mkuranga District. Reports indicate that the mini-bus was heading to Kimanzichana from Mbagala in Dar es Salaam while the lorry, which was loaded with 32 tonnes of salt, was travelling to Dar es Salaam from Lindi. The Acting Police Commander for Kibiti Special Police Zone, Mr Mohamed Likwata, told reporters that eight people who survived the accident have been transferred to Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) in Dar es Salaam for treatment. Speaking from the accident scene, Traffic Police Commander Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP) Fortunatus Musilimu said initial investigations have established that speeding by the lorry driver caused the catastrophe. “The driver of the lorry was driving at high speed at the sloppy section of the road with a corner and he lost control of the vehicle, which eventually lost track and veered to the right side of the road where it rammed onto the mini-bus,” SACP Musilimu said in an interview. He added: “Among the dead, seven were children aged between one to four years, 12 women and seven men...13 bodies have already been identified by their relatives and identification continues for the remaining 13 bodies.” SACP Musilimu said the injured, four men and four women, have been admitted at MNH, noting further that the lorry driver is among those admitted at the national referral hospital and is under police watch.