But, lady lucky smiled on her in 2015 when she was enrolled in the TASAF programme. And, all the lost hope of living a better life and the fading dreams of her children were suddenly revived. "The hardships I faced helped me to focus on the future of my children and the only way I thought was going to facilitate this was through accumulating some wealth…I thought to myself, investing in livestock will be the only solution for my children's bright future," said Sabina. The mother of five children lives in Isamilo Village of Kamuhanga Ward in Geita District with her children. And before joining Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) productive social safety net (PSSN) programme, the family lived a miserable life. The government’s anti-poverty programme coordinated by TASAF has contributed to empowering women through cash transfers, entrepreneurship education, increased income and consumption, improve the ability to cope with shocks, enhance and protect the human capital of children among extremely poor populations in the country. Other impacts related to the economic advancement of women include increased access to resources and credit. With the 48,000/- that she has been receiving, Sabina has accumulated 20 goats, five cows and bought 10 iron roofing sheets. The money she is receiving has also helped the widow to send her five children to school. Three of them are currently in primary school and the other two are in secondary school. When she received her stipends, she used part of the money to buy food, school supplies and save a very small portion. "My intention for saving the money was to buy two goats; I therefore managed to save 60,000/- before I could fulfil my dream. Having bought the goats, I used the next stipend to hire an acre of land and grew tomatoes," said the widow. She pointed out that she acquired 400,000/- after selling tomatoes she harvested from the land she hired for 50,000/-. Sabina used part of the profit (300,000/-) to buy more goats and the remainder to hire land for similar purposes. "This time around, I got 600,000/- from the harvested tomatoes and bought two cows and one of them had conceived. In the course of time the goats multiplied and now Sabina owns 20 goats and five cows. Now that she has managed to boost her income and obtained important resources, she intends to build a modern house with iron roofing sheets. According to her, when she was buying livestock people kept on telling her that the money she was receiving was supposed to be used to buy food and not otherwise. As she intends to build a house, Sabina has started making preparations and already has bought 10 iron sheets and anticipates selling a few goats to buy cement. Since, her intention is to use iron sheets to roof the house, she is going to bring down two of her trees planted in the compound some years ago to gather wood for the purpose. She faces challenges including proper knowledge on attending the livestock especially in the case of disease outbreaks. Sabina also lacks business knowledge which could have helped her make good use of the assets she has accumulated. Lega Amosi (36) from Nyambiti Village at Nyamirembe Ward in Chato District, Geita Region, lived a very difficult life with her five children before she was enrolled into the programme. “I thank TASAF for giving me a meaningful life, for my children can now attend school as well as obtain three meals a day,” she said. Amosi was abandoned by her husband in 2007 while living in Bariadi in a rented house. Her life was miserable because she had nothing to do to generate income for the upkeep of her children. The life she was living pushed her to return to her father’s house; unfortunately, he passed away a few years later. Challenges and problems forced Amosi to go to Chato and look for her mother and found out that she also had passed away. Saddened and frustrated by the news and with no one else to turn to, she moved to Chato with her children, not knowing how she was going to manage life. “When the programme was bankrolled in 2015, I was lucky to be registered among beneficiaries,” she said. She started receiving 40,000/- after every two months and spent the first two cash transfers buying food and the children’s school requirements. “I then used the following three stipends to buy several goats and they have now doubled. Currently, I have 19 goats…my aim is to have 35 goats before I can start selling as an alternative means of obtaining income. Besides the goats, Amosi hired an acre of farmland for 60,000/- and cultivated maize of which she obtained seven bags and sold four. The remaining three, according to her will be used for food and the rest as seeds. Her current goal is to construct a modern house roofed with iron sheets. Among challenges she is facing include lack of farm land. Currently for her to engage in farming, she has to hire a land at around 60,000 to 100,000/- for an acre depending on the time. She considers such payment as too hefty for her to manage. The most difficult challenge facing TASAF beneficiaries who have engaged into farming and livestock keeping is access to experts, to help them with diseases attacking animals and crops. There is evidence that cash transfers can support women’s entry into the labour market; in some countries women have benefited to a greater extent than men in this regard. In Kenya, the Cash Transfer for Orphaned and Vulnerable Children (CT-OVC) facilitated women’s entry into labour markets for households living further from local markets. Cash transfers have a positive impact on the well-being and opportunities of women and girls, particularly in education and employment. There is some evidence that female-headed households make greater productive investments than male-headed households. However, cash transfers lead to female-headed households making greater investments in economic assets and increased productive investment, most likely because they often have lower initial levels of productive assets than male-headed households. This means that programme implementers could expect to see greater proportionate improvements in productive investments when targeting female- headed households, while acknowledging the existing burden on women’s time.