. The couple built two small mudhouses, where they lived (together with her father in-law) for some years. In 2012, the husband (name withheld) abandoned the family and disappeared to unknown destination, leaving Ms Magreth and kids alone in the house. Efforts to get hold of the husband did not succeed, as his mobile phone was not reachable. The woman reported the incident to husband relatives, who could also failed to locate the whereabouts of the man. Later on, it was discovered that the man is living with another woman at a nearby village. On February, 2014, husband’s father died. Relatives sent the message to the man, who came for the burial of his father. As the family was preparing for the burial, some clan-leaders called a reconciliation meeting to resolve the marriage conflict; the couple forgave each, and agreed to continue living as husband and wife. After the ceremony and relatives left, the man abandoned the family again and went to live with the same woman. “From that time, I had been receiving and seeing some threats, especially during the night. So, I decide to sleep in neighbors houses and come back to my house in the morning,” says Magreth. One day, thieves came to Ms Magreth home and took everything from the house. The woman reported to the Gona village chairman, who promised to investigate the incident and bring. Due to insecurity, Magreth left the place with her kids and went to live with her mother in Mwanza Region. After few days, she received a phone call from Gona village chairman, informing her that people who broke the house and stole the properties have been arrested. Impressed by the good news, Magreth parked her belongings and kids, and went back to Gona village. “When I arrived there, I found my husband living with another woman in our house. He politely welcomed me that day, but chased me out the next day. I slept in a neighbor house for some days while fighting for my divorce rights, including childmaintenance income,” says Magreth. Fellow villagers advised the woman to consult Nzela paralegal, Mr Jokta Rumanziha, who guided her to lodge a case at Nzela Land tribunal, which referred the woman to Bugando Primary Court. Magreth won the case, as the primary court directed that the woman should be given a farm, two mud-huts and two goats, as part of her shares from the jointly-generated wealth. Dissatisfied by the court verdict, the husband filed an appeal at Geita District Court, which also dismissed the case and Magreth emerged victorious. “I easily won this case because of paralegal assistance. I have planted vegetables on the farm to feed my children and get other necessities, life goes on. Thanks God…million thanks to a person who connected me to the paralegal,” noted Magreth.