A typical example picked randomly from the religious sphere, focused on someone who had led a wretched life, but ultimately reformed. The person, says, Fulani (a randomly picked name) had been associated with virtually every sin or wayward trend under the sun. He was a bhang smoker, a loiterer, a pick-pocket and a swindler. In spite of his parents having spend considerable financial and other resources to finance his academic education and vocational training, he didn’t last long in any of the several jobs into which he deservingly fitted. It’s because employers and colleagues couldn’t put up with his wayward ways. When the patience of the management snapped, he was tossed out. The option of relocating him to his home village didn’t yield the much longed-for results. But, after several counselling sessions, as well as personal soulsearching, he reformed, but devil came calling again and he reverted to his old, much-detested habits. But there was no letup in the counselling sessions, which ultimately paid off by ultimately fashioning a positive Fulani out of the wretched lot. Unto that narrative may fit, somewhat, the motorcycle taxi transport sub-sector, which has for a fairly long time been perceived as a habitat of ill-mattered, reckless mostly young men. Several people have been killed and maimed due to the recklessness of quite many of them. They have also been linked with such anti-social tendencies as luring schoolgirls, by sweet-taking them into love relationships, consequently wrecking the academic and career advancements of some. It’s delightful to hear from the Traffic Police that, the rate of boda boda accident-related deaths declined from 890 in 2016 to 728 last year. Injuries dropped from 2,128 to 1,090 between the two years. The trend suggests, too, that passengers’ safety is progressively enhanced. The Traffic Police attributes the positive trend to heightened traffic safety education. This is good news, which may not have been easily believable in the fairly distant past, as boda boda operators have generally been perceived as a reckless, manner less lot. We earnestly hope that the positive trend will continue, via sustained safety sensitisation and positive reception by the sub-sector operators