The committee was concerned that the road networks have greatly contributed to social and economic losses owing to a series of road accidents. “Roads are critical to the economy. As the national roads agency you must come up with a clear strategy on ways that you can protect or offer a solution to these problems,” Mr Moshi Kakoso, the Committee Chairman said at the climax of the committee’s tour of the 259km long Manyoni-Itigi- Tabora highway. The new infrastructure is under construction. It is being upgraded to tarmac level connecting Singida region with its neighbouring Tabora region. Deputy Minister of Works, Transport and Communication Mr Elias Kwandikwa explained that the ongoing construction seeks to open up the central region to other parts of the country. He said that there has been a number of economic activities in the region, unfortunately the road network turned out to be a hindrance factor. “This will influence economic growth in the region,” he said. He explained that the government had distinguished the construction works into three categories. The first one being the 89.5km long Manyoni-Itigi- Chaya stretch and the 85kmlong Tabora -Nyahua portion whose construction is complete. The third phase is Chaya- Nyahua, another 85.4km-long stretch whose construction is ongoing. Tanroads Singida Regional Manager Engineer Leonard Kapongo and Tabora Regional Manager Engineer Damian Ndabalinzi assured the committee of their commitments to ensuring that the general public is aware of the importance of protecting the roads. Eng Ndabalinzi said “We are working around the clock to ensure that not only motorists but also pedestrians understand their duties to protect the road.” “This is for the benefit of both people in Singida and Tabora region,” Eng Kapongo added. The infrastructure committee is now scrutinising government projects overseen by the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication. After Singida and Tabora, the committee is scheduled to tour similar projects in Kigoma.