The day is a Christian religious holiday commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and his death at Calvary. The message was delivered yesterday during the Good Friday Mass by Arch-Bishop Evaristo Chengula of Saint Francis of Assisi Parish in Mwanjelwa, at the Roman Catholic Diocese of Mbeya. In his homily, he said it has become customary for Christians to complain after every election about the leaders whom they would have put in power, it is high time for them to start thinking early before the election time comes. “If you want development and people who will uphold peace, tranquility and justice in the country, it is crucial to start thinking about such kind of people in our society today and not during the election,” he noted. Bishop Chengula further said in this year’s message that Bishops want Christians to be cautious on people they will put into power during the 2020 elections, insisting on them to focus on choosing people with the right qualities. He said complaining and analysing people after election was unnecessary, thus it was crucial to think before casting votes. Expounding further, the Bishop said the values enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are as relevant and timeless today as they were 70 years ago, thus it was equally important to abide by them when electing leaders. “After election, we must support and pray for them to fulfil their responsibilities as every Tanzanian desires to see love and peace prevailing in the country,”he said. On reasons Christians celebrate Easter, he said that the resurrection of Jesus is the foundation of Christian faith. The resurrection established Jesus as the powerful Son of God and is cited as proof that God will judge the world inrighteousness. Bishop Chengula said Easter season was the best time for Christians to meditate whether God lives in them or not, also their deeds should please the Almighty God and not otherwise. He also said Christians must stop pointing fingers at one another, every believer should recognise that he has the responsibility to bring change to his fellow Christians. Christians around the world observe Good Friday with great humility and reverence. Observed on the Friday preceding Easter Sunday, people honour and remember the passion and suffering through which Jesus went through. This Sunday, Christian churches will celebrate Easter, the date observed as the resurrection of Jesus from the dead, following his crucifixion on the cross as a sacrifice for man’s sins. The service traditionally draws one of the largest crowds of the year and often attracts those who rarely attend worship services. The significance of Easter is tied to the great prophecy made in the ancient Christian scriptures. According to the prophecy, God would send a Messiah, who would be persecuted for the sins of mankind and rise on the third day