. The organiser said the preparation of the event to take place next Thursday were in top gear and between 300 and 400 participants are expected to attend. TSN yesterday met the organising committee at the office of Zanzibar Business Council (ZBC) for final touches. The committee led by ZBC Executive Director, Mr Bakari Ally Bakari, during the meeting hailed the idea of organising the forum to help publicise unexplored business opportunities to local and international investors in the Isles. They agreed that the platform would help government agencies, state owned enterprises and trade regulatory bodies unveil business opportunities to the general public, including giving details on how to exploit them. TSN Managing Editor, Dr Jim Yonazi visited Zanzibar last weekend, expressing his optimism that the business forum would create an opportunity to bring together the business community, SMEs and government bodies to share experience on what should be done for further improvement of business environment in the isles. “These forums are aimed at enabling Tanzanians and even foreigners to make rightful decisions when thinking or searching for information on potential areas to invest in a respective place,” Dr Yonazi said Speaking specifically on Zanzibar, Dr Yonazi said: “We, as TSN, must be in the forefront to tell Tanzanians, East Africans and, if possible, the world about the potential investment opportunities that are up for grab in the Isles.” According to Dr Yonazi, the forum’s major objective is to identify and promote social economic opportunities relevant for the development of Zanzibar. Also, TSN team met with the Managing Director of Zanzibar State Trading Corporation (ZSTC), Dr Said Seif Mzee, in Zanzibar during which he expressed his eagerness to fully utilise the forum by publicising ZSTC activities. “Business forum is an important platform to us. We will use this opportunity to tell the public the importance of cloves to Zanzibaris,” Dr Mzee said. In Zanzibar clove is a leading exporting crop and competing with tourism for raking in forex. The Business Forum, which is expected to be held in Zanzibar on March 15, becomes the fifth after similar ones were held in Simiyu, Mwanza, Tanga, and Shinyanga regions.