Speaking to the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in a telephone interview yesterday, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Simon Sirro (pictured), observed that there are no security threats in the country, pointing out that people should stop relying on rumours spread via social media. “I can assure you that there is no time the country has experienced less crime rates than this time around … all areas are free from threats, major crimes as well as crimes related to banditry have gone down,” said IGP Sirro. He wondered how people were quick to believe social media rumours while questioning the authority over spreading of such kind of information. IGP Sirro disclosed that there are people trying to bring politics in the security issue of the country, cautioning them to immediately stop whatever it is they were trying to achieve. “People should stop politicising issues related to the security ofthe country … those who want to travel to Zanzibar or any other place, can do so, for Tanzania is safe,” he said. According to IGP Sirro, just recently he spoke to representatives from the United States and Germany embassies in the country on such claims and reassured them of their security. Elaborating on the recent Syrian diplomat attack, he said people should not confuse things, as with this incident it was clear that the robbery was a plot by the embassy’s own employee. Regarding the issue of demonstrations, IGP Sirro said processions are lawful if they are granted with required permits; the police on the other hand do not have any problems with such marches. “People should follow the rightful procedure when staging any kind of demonstration to overcome any inconvenience that may arise from an unlawful march,” he noted. On Thursday evening, the Communications Unit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation issued a statement refuting claims going through the social media, published by those not wishing well for the country. The statement noted that such claims were causing insecurities and fear among citizens and their properties. Among those caught up in the dilemma include foreign tourists and diplomats who work and live in the country. It is noted that the claims notify the public that on April 26, this year is going to be a day for demonstrations, warning foreigners not to travel to Zanzibar during Easter celebrations and the Union Day for security reasons. “The Ministry urges diplomats and foreigners who work and live in the country to continue with their activities, that includes travelling from one place to another, as there is nothing to worry for the country is secure and peaceful. Security organs are keen to ensure that any kind of breach is controlled before it can cause harms, noted the statement. The Ministry urges the public to seek relevant information from reliable sources and avoid relying on mere propaganda that stipulated on ill intention and personal interests.