Before Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi, other accused persons were Robert Silaa, a Clearing Agent, Isihaka Mgubi, a Driver, Cathbert Mlugu, who is Security Guard with Mofed Zambia Cargo, Mrisho Mindu and Maulid Said, both clerks with the security firm and Giften John, whose job was unknown. They all denied the charges. The magistrate ordered them to remain in remand because the offence of money laundering under which the accused persons are facing is not bailable. The case was adjourned to tomorrow when the defence will present submissions to challenge money laundering offence. The prosecutions led by Senior State Attorneys Mutalemwa Kishenyi and Mwana- amina Komba Kono told the court that the accused persons conspired to commit an offence of stealing between January 26 and February 6, 2018 at Zambia Cargo and Logistic Limited in the city of Dar es Salaam. It is alleged that within the same period and place in the city, Kirby Mg’andu, who is Operation Manager with Zambia Cargo and Logistic Limited and his co-accused persons, stole the 700 cartons of processed cashew nuts valued at 54,180 US dollars, property of Barabara Trading Tanzania Limited. The court was told further that within the same period and place, the accused persons directly engaged themselves in transaction involving the cashew nuts worth 54,180 US dollars, equivalent to 120,563,909/55, while knowing that the said property was proceed of predicate of offence of stealing. Arraignment of the accused persons comes after Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa directed Lindi Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Godfrey Zambi, to arrest all traders who are involved in cashew nuts smuggling and take them to court. “I would like to direct the regional commissioner to immediately act on this matter, these people who are involved in this illegal business must be arrested and taken to court for further legal actions,” the Premier is quoted as saying in a statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office. He warned that the government would take serious legal measures against people who will be found smuggling cashew nuts, with their vehicles being seized as well. The Premier also told the farmers to shun ‘kangomba’ business and sell their cash nuts to authorised markets at a higher and approved price