The comments were made by the Executive Secretary of the Central Corridor Transit Transport Facilitation Agency (CCTTFA) Capt. Deodonne Dukundane at the end of the international UNCTAD capacitybuilding workshop held in Dar es Salaam. The workshops aimed at promoting sustainable freight transport systems which is crucial to achieving economically efficient, socially viable and environmentally-friendly transportation and logistics services to African region. Capt. Dukundane said 40 per cent of the value of the product range is due to shipping costs, so the SGR rail will reduce the transport costs significantly due to the speed of these trains, thus reducing the freight rate of staying along the way, thus reducing the price of goods and the rapid increase in the trade which will boost the economy of all relevant countries. Capt. Dukundane added that CCTTFA has encouraged the member countries to harmonise the road user charges for smooth movement of cargo and people, he said, not all the CCTTFA countries have harmonised the charges, so far only Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi have harmonised the road user charges while the process between DRC to Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Rwanda to fully harmonise is still underway. The Chief of transport section of UNCTAD, Frida Youseff said Transport is the key for trade development and UNCTAD has integrated the importance of transport sector as the key enable of trade and development on its programmes she said transport sector is not only used to facilitate trade but transport sector is an economic sector on its own right that generate its own revenue and employment, that would help countries to promote trade and development and integrate global value chain. She said of over the recent years the issues of transport sustainability has been considered important globally through Sustainable Agenda 2030, Sustainable Development Goals (STGs). The Future We Want and the UN has been giving a particular focus on the importance of transport in achieving those objectives. The representative from the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications, Benjamin Mbimbi, said Tanzania has the most advantages opportunities to exploit transport opportunities for economic growth, by using the port of Dar es Salaam which is serving six land locked countries of Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, the DRC, Zambia, Malawi and Mozambique, such that the SGR will be used to easy the transport burdens of all those countries. The workshop was attended by Central Corridor stakeholders from Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and the DRC