National income has a direct effect on the development of health systems, through insurance coverage and public spending, for instance. The effects of health on development are clear. Countries with weak health and education conditions find it harder to achieve sustained growth. Indeed, economic evidence confirms that a 10 percent improvement in life expectancy at birth is associated with a rise in economic growth of some 0.3-0.4 percentage points a year (Health and Economic Growth Book). Health systems need financing and investment to improve their performance, yet this need cannot in turn impose an unfair burden on national spending or competitiveness. As Tanzania is transitioning to become a middle income country, nominal increase in domestic public health spending are likely as the Gross Domestic Product grows. A country’s change in income status can however create opportunities to promote even greater increase in government spending on health. And, this is because more citizen-driven and aspirational, based on changing expectations and demands from citizens as a country starts to get richer. The Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) productive social safety net (PSSN) programme is among contributing factors which have promoted access to medical treatment among poor families through the Community Health Fund (CHF). Through the programme’s cash transfer component, poor households are able to contribute 10,000/-only, for family members to access medical treatment annually without paying additional money. The Rural Transformations-Technical Papers of 2015 prepared by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), describes cash transfers as a social protection instrument that directs reliable and periodic cash handouts to targeted households or individuals. According to the papers cash transfers may either be conditional or unconditional to fulfilling certain requirements, such as compliance in children’s school attendance and health checkup visits. Such conditionality for beneficiaries of TASAF in the country include compliance of the health component by enrolling into CHF. In the country, the cash transfer component has led to promotion of clinic attendance for children under the age of five and helped in early child development. The most common objective of cash transfers is to break the intergenerational transmission of poverty through human capital, as a consequence leads to positive improvements in children’s education and in the health and that of the mothers (World Bank, 2014b). Chato District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr Athanas Ngambakubi observed remarkable progress made by the programme in the health aspect including increase in number of people who are using the Community Health Fund to obtain medical treatment in the district. “ For the past two years, Chato has managed to collect about 140m/-for the period between 2016/2017 to date, as contributions for registering TASAF beneficiaries with CHF. Over 90 percent of beneficiaries after being educated on the importance of the CHF are ready to contribute 10,000/- to access medical services for the whole year,” said Ngambakubi. He pointed out that the initiative has helped to strengthen the availability of important drugs in health centres and dispensaries by 95 percent. Through other funding mechanisms such as the Health Basket Fund and Result Based Financing (RBF) the availability of drugs in the facilities has been facilitated. Among other significance, Dr Ngambakubi said tracking of patients especially under five children who should attend clinic as a basic requirement of the TASAF programme. For that matter, coverage of polio and rubella vaccination has been intensified. In the previous years, the district was far behind, but it’s currently at 60 percent. On the other end, people can confidently visit health facilities without worrying of any charges that may be derived from their treatment. In the past years, the rate of malaria patients was high, over percent of people who had shown signs of the illness after tests were diagnosed with the disease . The prevalence has gone down to 30 percent due awareness raised. Now that people are able to visit hospitals without facing challenges, knowledge on disease prevention such as the importance of using mosquito nets to curb malaria is provided to them as a preventive measure. This among other reasons which have contributed to strengthening the nutrition and health of people and the importance of going to the hospital early in the case of illness has also bared fruits. These impacts are extremely positive for women and the society at large because good health constitutes a foundation for economic advancement and well-being. Moreover, linkages established between cash transfers and health care services in general help reduce the time women spend on care activities, as women are often responsible for providing care to sick family members. First, the positive health impacts are dependent on both the availability and quality of health services in targeted communities; thus consistent coverage across regions can be challenging. Investment in health is not only a desirable, but also an essential priority for most societies. Investments in health and the design of financing policies should be addressed in terms of the interaction between health and the economy