Smart mobility strives to integrate all modes of transport to provide the vision of a seamless end to end journey experience. Technology has a major role to play as the transport sector now stands on the brink of great change, where digital innovation will go further to bring about improvements in operations, asset management and the delivery of capital programmes. The Digital Age has begun, and technology has brought us smartphones, real-time planning, open traffic data, and social customer service. For the first time, the passenger now has more information than the operator. This fundamental shift offers consumers real choice based on a picture of alternative routes, comparative pricing and current network status. As transport operators adapt and new entrants arrive, new business models will transform the use of user information, payments, integration and automation. Until recently, public transportation in Cairo, Freetown, Lagos, Nairobi and many other African cities was chaotic and accident prone. The mostly unreliable local taxicabs did not alleviate the situation. But Uber’s entry into the continent could be changing the narrative. Uber, the global ridesharing company that relies on smartphone technology for dispatch and fee payment, has become the most recognised alternative to traditional taxicabs. Many prefer Uber, launched in the US in 2009, because of its fair prices, quality standards and convenience. The concept has spread globally. The convenience of calling at zero-rates for Tigo subscribers to the nearest Uber taxi became a reality after months of Tigo and Uber teams, developing a platform that was launched this week. Of course, brand partnerships are nothing new and the Uber/Tigo one is hardly the first but the fact that this one has achieved immediate success speaks to the importance of such business partnerships. The partnership, according to Tigo’s Managing Director Simon Karikari is a sign of things to come. It is, according to him, another innovative window with which Tigo customers can enjoy seamless services as an extension of the company’s maxim of promoting digital lifestyles. “From today, all Tigo customers will use the Uber app for free. The first of its kind partnership will be beneficial to existing Uber riders and driver-partners and encourage more riders to use the Uber app,” Mr Karikari said. “Tigo is a robust brand in the Tanzanian market and we have a vested stake in introducing more efficient ways for customers to engage with the world around them. Uber is a strong addition to the growing range of products and services that our customers can enjoy in their daily lives,” he added. According to 2017 statistics by the San-Fransiscobased firm show South Africa as Uber’s biggest market in Africa with 969,000 active riders, while Kenya is second with 363,000 active users. The data, also showed that 5,000 and 12,000 Uber drivers are signed up in Kenya and South Africa, respectively. Kenya remains Uber’s most vibrant market in the region as Uganda and Tanzania have 48,000 and 53,000 active riders, with each country signing-up 1,000 drivers. Ghana and Nigeria have 140,000 and 267,000 active riders respectively. About 7,000 drivers are on Uber platform in Nigeria while Ghana has 3,000. The data shows that there are 1.8 million active users of the Uber app in Africa. “Currently, we have more than 29,000 driverpartners taking advantage of Uber’s earning opportunities. Drivers love being as flexible as they like; earning what they want, when they want to supplement their income,” Uber General Manager for Sub-Saharan Africa, Alon Lits was quoted to have said. The innovative collaboration with Tigo means that taxi riders can rope in the Tigopesa money transfer service in with taxi payment and access taxis without having to incur bundle or call costsThrough this partnership, riders in Dar es Salaam can pay for their cash trips through their mobile phones. By simply visiting the mobile site or downloading the Uber app, riders can still enjoy the convenience of cash-free payments. “Our partnership with Uber is directly in line with our commitment to make payments convenient and easy for everyone. Uber riders can now enjoy the convenience of paying for their rides through their Tigopesa accounts or a local debit card without having to carry around cash”, Karikari said during the launch of the partnership in Dar es Salaam. Speaking at the launch, the Uber East African Manager Loic Amando said that by Uber being a tech-based service, it augurs very well with Tigo’s initiatives of remaining the top-notch digital communications company in the country. “Since Uber is a softwarebased platform that combines real-time, mobile, and social aspects of Tanzanians, it’s a catalyst for a new model for collaboration. After scouting for a mobile network with which to work with, we settled for Tigo because the company has shown commitment to digital lifestyle,” Amando said. On his part Alfred Msemo, Country Manager at Uber said that our partnership with Tigo in Tanzania which will enable all riders and driver-partners who have Tigo lines to use the Uber app on their mobile phones free of charge with no data costs. “Uber is a smartphone app that gets people from A to B at the push of a button. Uber’s mission and vision is to offer safe, reliable and affordable transportation to everyone, everywhere. This partnership will encourage thousands of residents in Dar es Salaam who are Tigo customers to use the Uber app to move around Dar es Salaam.” said Mr Msemo. The two companies will be working together on products and promotions that aim to add value both to the existing and potential clients. Tigo and Uber in Tanzania will soon announce more exciting offers to enable customers to interact with Uber in Dar es Salaam where Uber services are currently available.