In so doing, he said, the law enforcers will be able to ensure citizens’ rights were protected and fully respected. The minister was speaking during the graduation ceremony held for police officers at Uongozi Institute in Dar es Salaam, during which 30 law enforcers were conferred with Post Graduate Diploma in Leadership. He said the police force still had a long way to go in freeing itself from the chains of corruption, because failure to do so will render its efforts to fight for the rights of the public impossible. He said experience showed weak people had no right in any corrupt country. “Corruption means selfishness, as public servants fight for their own wellbeing, putting public interests aside.” “I have been informed that during the course these graduates focused on three areas -Making Strategic Choices, Leading People and Other Resources and Excelling in Personal Leadership Qualities. I urge you to put all these into practice,” he said. He added that every patriotic Tanzanian should join the corruption war to support the government efforts, recalling that all Tanzanian presidents used to set strong strategies, starting with Mwalimu Nyerere’s Anti-Corruption Squad in the first-phase government up to the formation of the current special court to deal with embezzlement issues set by President John Magufuli. However, the minister appreciated researches by some organisations such as Transparency International, Twaweza and Repoa, whose results have been indicating decrease in corruption, which placed Tanzania on second position in East Africa behind Rwanda. The same applied (second position behind Rwanda) in good governance issues, according to Mr Mkuchika, urging the force to be the first state organ to pull Tanzania to the top position while Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) supports the fight. Police Commissioner, Finance, Administration and Logistic, Alberth Nyamuhanga who represented the Inspector General of Police, Simon Sirro, promised intense corruption war while expressing his grief over the research results which ranked the police force on top as among the most corrupt organs in the country. He said that the force was already on progress to make sure that all staff conduct their duties faithfully and ethically and completely turn Tanzania into a freecorruption zone. “These graduates will add value in this changing progress. We beg Uongozi Institute to grant us another chance of leadership studies for our staff as the course seems to promote patriotism among other benefits,” he said. Uongozi Institute Chief Executive Officer, Prof Joseph Semboja affirmed continuation of the one-year leadership studies for various public servants, which aim at among other things promote good governance, strategic decisions and keen supervision of both financial and human resources