NACTE has also published on its website a list of colleges approved to register new students for the academic year 2018/2019, calling upon the applicants for the March/April intake to go through the list to avoid problems. Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, NACTE’s Director of Monitoring and Evaluation, Ms Annastella Sigwejo pointed out that a good number of colleges have qualified to register new student in the current academic year. “The Council carried out an assessment in 459 colleges and discovered that some had partly met the conditions and decided that they should continue with new registrations. As for colleges with major anomalies, we directed them to describe how they will rectify their problems to meet the required standards and be able to go on with teaching,” said Ms Sigwejo. According to the Director, some of the colleges in their reports agreed to make the necessary changes and were given three months while there are others that did not even reply. She noted that out of the 459 colleges that were assessed, its only 163 colleges that were not allowed to continue with new registrations. She further revealed that each college was found to have a different problem from the other. Some colleges needed to repair teaching infrastructure, others lacked enough teaching staff, whereas they are those that issued unapproved courses. “We have temporarily suspended those wehave not received response until the council sits and come up with a decision,” she noted. Ms Sigwejo observed that only 256 colleges will appear in the website’s list and those that will not are not allowed to enrol new students until further notice. The Council’s Head of Admission Unit, Mr Twaha Twaha, said a system has been prepared to ensure that new students do not enrol to unapproved colleges and courses. “The system can be accessed on the Council’s websites 24/7, therefore, students can go through the site to verify their information,” said Mr Twaha. He pointed out that NACTE had announced the March/April 2018 admission for diploma and certificate in various colleges, which began on February 20 to March 25, this year, except for health courses which will end on April 10, this year. After the deadline, Mr Twaha said the colleges will have to submit names to the council for verification and none of them will be allowed to register anyone whose name has not gone through NACTE.