Simba and Yanga lost glorious opportunities of utilising well the home ground advantages as the Jangwani lads suffered a 2-1 loss at the hands of Township Rollers from Botswana in CAF Champions League first round, first leg at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday last week. Their traditional rivals Simba forced a 2-2 draw with Egypt’s Al Masry in one of the thrilling CAF Confederation Cup, first round, first leg encounter played at the National Stadium on Wednesday last week. Simba and Yanga face their final test this weekend, and away from home, against their Botswana and Egyptian counterparts. Certainly, it will be tough tasks for the country envoys because their opponents are riding high in their respective leagues. In Botswana Premier League, Township Rollers are second on the 16-team log with 46 points similar to the league leaders Jwaneng Galaxy FC, who have superior goal average to put them on first spot. On the other hand, Al Masry are fourth in the 18-team Egypt Premier League with 49 points, 26 points behind leaders Al Ahly, who have bagged 75 points so far. This signifies that Simba and Yanga have an uphill task against their opponents who played better than them in their respective first, leg matches. Several sports pundits in the country have spoken about the upcoming mend or break ties for the country’s representatives, with most of them predicting that making it into the next round will be surely not easy at all. Most of them say Yanga and Simba must employ extraordinary tricks and play as a team for them to make it into the next stage of the crucial continental competitions. Pundits said both clubs, on paper, have thin chances of winning their away matches but on the ground, they still have a place to turn around the score and progress into the next stage, since the game of football is decided after 90 minutes of play. Most pundits are wondering why when it comes to CAF games, in most cases, first leg clashes are played in the country, which they said gives the away-teams an added advantage of excelling into the next stage, since they thoroughly know the strengths and weaknesses of the home teams. However, others said this provided even greater opportunity for both Yanga and Simba to sail through basing on awaygoal rules which they said could help them perform miracles this time around. The two clubs should attack vehemently from the first whistle to the last for the purpose of netting more away goals. Playing away has never been that easy for Tanzania teams basing on the past records. However, individual quality, team work, strength and focus will play an essential role for the teams to proceed. Comparing the results posted by the country’s envoys at home, it is evident that a scoreless draw will do no good at all for both Yanga and Simba, meaning that scoring will be the only way of making it to the next stage of the competitions. The Jangwani based side, who are currently enjoying a smooth ride in the Mainland Premier League having equalled on points with leaders Simba will solely bank on scoring boots of Obrey Chirwa and Ibrahim Ajib, who lately scored vital goals for the side’s 3-1 triumph against Stand United at the National Stadium last Monday. For the case of Msimbazi giants, definitely John Bocco and Ugandan import Emmanuel Okwi will inspire the team since their sharpness on target will be a catalyst for the team’s survival into the lucrative continental competition. Egypt teams are known to use many tricks to win their home matches of which in most cases, works better for them. Al Masry’s venue Port Said was reopened recently by authorities after five years of closure following the deadly riot on February 1, 2012 that left 74 people killed, while 500 others sustained injuries. It is a hostile venue and Simba should be well aware of the situation. During their respective matches, our teams should fight to the bitter end. They should be able not only to step up their pace, but to maintain it throughout the play, from the start of the match to the end. Our representatives also need to exercise caution, especially when it comes to tackling their opponents as they could easily be red carded in order to weaken them. Both Simba and Yanga have what it takes to win away and qualify for the next stage of their respective tournament