Speaking during the launch of ‘Water Week’ in Dar es Salaam, yesterday, Coast Regional Commissioner (RC), Engineer Evarist Ndikilo, said the enticement for investments, particularly in his region, would not be meaningful if there was no adequate water to be used in the ventures. The annual commemoration of the week, this year, marked under a theme; “Water, ecosystem and human development,” kicked off in the city yesterday. It is celebrated to raise awareness on water services. The event attracted government officials, water stakeholders and officials from the Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority (Dawasa) and Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Corporation (Dawasco). The two water utilities provide services in Dar es Salaam and parts of Coast Region. “There are 50 companies from China which haveexpressed interest to invest at Mlandizi area in Coast Region, but unreliable supply of the precious liquid is discouraging them,” the RC highlighted. Eng Ndikilo explained that authorities in the region have already engaged the Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (Tanesco) to supply power to the envisaged investment and challenged Dawasco to follow suit by providing water to the area. The RC cited the Bagamoyo Special Economic Zone as another mega project which requires plenty of water for it to perform efficiently. “In the next coming five to 10 years, there will be a lot of industries in Coast, but how will they operate effectively without adequate water and electricity?” he queried. Later on, the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC), Paul Makonda, challenged water utilities on one hand and government agencies charged with construction of roads on the other hand, to put in place proper arrangements and plans to avoid unnecessary damage of water infrastructure. The RC cited instances where the Tanzania Rural and Urban Road Agency (TARURA) and Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS) would construct a stretch of road somewhere only to be disjointed later by Dawasco and Dawasa when they are putting up water infrastructure. “It is unfortunate that TARURA and TANROADS are not represented here today. It is crucial for the road agencies and water utilities to work closely before executing their projects, to avoid preventable damage of infrastructure. The RC challenged the water utilities to reduce the amount of nonrevenue water which now stands at 35 per cent, due to leakages caused by dilapidated water pipes and vandalism. Making a presentation earlier, the Acting Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Dawasco, Engineer Cyprian Luhemeja, informed delegates at the commemoration that the corporation has set aside 62bn/- for improvement of water provision in Tabata, Kisarawe, Temeke and Kigamboni. Eng Luhemeja said in the next financial year Dawasco plans to set aside 159bn/- to improve sewerage services. Capacity of water processing plants presently stands at 502 million litres per day which cater for 75 per cent of the actual demand, he explained, noting that plans were underway to expand capacity of the processing plants to 756 million litres by 2020, to cater for 95 per cent of the demand