In 2013, for example, there were 203 million registered mobile money customers and 61 million active customers (customers with at least one transaction in the past 90 days), according to GSMA’s State of the Industry 2013 report. To support these customers, there are 886,000 agents, of which 52 percent are active. The most popular transaction is airtime top-up, representing 75 per cent of transactions. Person- to-person (P2P) transfer is the second most popular transaction type at 18 percent. Bill payment, bulk payment and merchant payment make up the remaining types, while deposit to savings account, purchase of insurance and repayment of credit products are negligible. Only 8 of the 219 deployments are earning revenues in excess of EUR 800,000, showing that there is still a long way to go for sustainable financial inclusion. Africa has been at the forefront of digital financial services. In Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), 36 countries out of 54 have mobile banking services. These includes, for example, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Kenya, Madagascar, Mali, Nigeria, Niger, South Africa, Senegal, Tanzania and Uganda. The December 2013 Global System for Mobile Communications Association (GSMA) data shows that there are 219 deployments globally of which 52 per cent are in SSA. In addition, there were 47 planned deployments in the region, out of 113 planned worldwide. With roughly 2.5 billion people in lower to-middle income countries who have no access to banking services, the potential is clear. The estimates show that out of about one billion Africans, nearly 735 million (in 2012) were mobile phone subscribers, with Nigeria having the highest number of mobile phone subscriptions in Africa (16 per cent of the continent’s total mobile subscriptions). The year 2017 was another record year for mobile money. Now processing over a billion dollars a day, the mobile money industry is having a demonstrable impact on the global effort to extend access to financial services and to provide a gateway to the digital economy. As the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) enter their third year, mobile technology is also proving to be an essential tool for delivering on this highly ambitious agenda. Better connectivity and new services are enabling healthier, more inclusive communities and mobile money remains a central part of this story. It is contributing to 13 of the 17 SDGs, from enabling access to essential services like health and education, to empowering women with employment opportunities, to reducing poverty by offering life-enhancing financial services, often for the first time. The social and financial impact of telecommunications and banking sectors interoperability can no longer be washed away in efforts to foster the growth of financial inclusion. The same can be said on the localization of the content on mobile phones’ interface to enhance social interaction among in the society. The ability by the customers to digitally communicate and make transactions in Kiswahili, the language majority of Tanzanians understand, and at same time access their finances through competing mobile networks are a means of achieving other desirable social and economic objectives. Interoperability can promote a range of intermediate objectives such as greater productive efficiency, convenience for customers and dynamic efficiency through promoting competition within the financial sector. It can further spur growth of the social and economic development of the country cascading from the company’s protracted investment in infrastructure and job creation as has happened with Tigo, one of the Tanzania’s leading digital lifestyle telecom companies. Mobile phones have become an intrinsic part of most people’s lives, connecting them to the rest of the world and at the same time firing national financial inclusion goals. As Tigo’s financial inclusion footprint in the mobile sector continues to grow, so is the impact of digitization, spreading across more sectors in the country including banks and other actors in the financial sector. In June 2014, Tigo successfully launched the first-ofits- kind interoperability agreement that enabled millions of Tigopesa mobile money customers to send money to other registered competing service providers. Tigo also put in place apps in Kiswahili, another first that enabled Tanzania to communicate freely digitally through their lingua franca. Tigo and TTCL last week entered into a ground-breaking partnership, whereby customers from the two entities will be able to send money between the two networks straight into their respective wallets. Speaking during the announcement of the partnership in Dar Es Salaam, TTCL Head of Mobile Financial Services Moses Alphonce said that the alliance is a milestone in the company’s endeavors to connect financial inclusion to many Tanzanians and that TTCL has very robust platform that can provide utility companies and government institutions an ability to provide digital payment solution to the millions of Tanzanians. “We’re very pleased to sign this partnership agreement which is going to benefit our customers and all Tanzanians. The coming of TTCL PESA into the industry aims at making financial solutions inclusive to all Tanzanians. Our target is to transform the daily financial needs of our people to be cashless and be the enabler of all digital financial transactions performed in Tanzania”, said Mr Alphonce. Tigo offers affordable, fast and secure digital financial solutions that cut across Mobile Banking, Payment services, Top up and Money Transfer and many others. Tigo’s Chief Officer of Mobile Financial Services, Mr Hussein Sayed said that the agreement was not only a manifestation of ground breaking partnership but also Tigo’s pioneer role in mobile financial services interoperability has been cemented. This has reaffirmed the two-telecom’s keenness in providing their customers unparalleled service in the new era of digital ‘wallets’. “With this agreement, we are once again helping Tanzania cement its indisputable role as a global pioneer in digital financial inclusion. Interoperability is always a catalyst for growth in the mobile money sector mobile technology has a stronger impact on economic systems in Tanzania for the mobile communication infrastructure is the key that allows establishment of economic institutions”, he said. “We have introduced to the market a number of innovations recently and we are keen to expand our use cases by integrating with other players in the market,” Hussein added.