Opening the Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN) ‘Business Forum’ at the former chamber of the House of Representatives in Zanzibar yesterday, Amb. Iddi said unless Tanzanians maintain a steady supply of raw materials, the established industries will not last longer. “Our country has now thrown its weight into reviving and starting up new industries for the major objective of, among others, attaining middle income economy status. But, these industries will not be sustainable if they are not supplied with raw materials from within the country,” Amb. Iddi cautioned. The Second Vice-President said almost all industries established either in Zanzibar or Mainland Tanzania are in need of agricultural raw materials, including livestock products and other marine and land resources, all of which must be supplied from Tanzania for their sustainability. He said forums like the gathering held in Zanzibar yesterday were important in providing stakeholders with opportunities to share ideas and views, including brainstorming on trade and business chances available on the Isles. He said that while both the Union and Zanzibar governments had good intention in spearheading the industrialisation drive, the agenda would be meaningless if raw materials to feed industries will not be supplied by citizens. Speaking specifically on Zanzibar, Amb. Iddi said the Island was endowed with unique resources that, if fully exploited, would change its economy and the lives of its citizens. Giving an example, Amb. Iddi, whose opening speech was read on his behalf by Minister of State in the Second Vice-President’s Office, Mr Mohammed Aboud, said despite the archipelago being endowed with a huge number of tourist attractions, majority were still unknown to the public and the international community. “There are a lot of business opportunities that are yet to be fully exploited in the tourism sector. This shows that there is a pressing need to publicise the industry, including its unknown attractions,” he added. The Second Vice-President said more effort was needed in building Zanzibar’s blue economy, through promotion of investment in services and marine resources processing industries. He said that Zanzibar had strategic potential if deliberate efforts were put in building a service oriented economy. “Given Zanzibar’s geographical location, investment opportunities lie idle in the processing of marine resources such as fish, seaweed, sardines and salt. We are ingreat need of processing industries to add value to the resources,” he said. According to him, more production and processing industries were needed for spices such as Cloves, Eucalyptus, Cardamom and White pepper as the crops fetched good prices in the international markets, calling upon prospective investors, including locals to grab the opportunities. Investing in small-scale industries was something that Ambassador Iddi also trumpeted, saying doing so would help create employment and fight poverty afflicting citizens. He also used the occasion to remind the gathering on the possible future business opportunity in the oil and gas industry in Zanzibar. He hailed TSN management for its creativity, especially in initiating ‘Business Forum’ idea, saying that was the best opportunity for traders, businesspersons and service providers to assess their performance in trade and business areas, including exploring other avenues. “In a very special way, I would like to congratulate TSN for this brilliant idea of holding these forums. When the idea of holding it in Zanzibar was presented to me, I accepted it without hesitation,” Amb. Iddi said. He challenged participants from Zanzibar to speak openly on impediments hindering growth of business in the Isles. “I know there are challenges in the areas of policy, laws and human resources. All these challenges are opportunities if we work on them. ” The event was well received by Zanzibaris and Mainlanders as a good number of traders and service oriented firms participated, including Zanzibar Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC), Zanzibar Utilities Regulatory Authority (ZURA), TK FM 88, Watumishi Housing Corporation (WHC), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Medical Stores Departments (MSD), NMB Bank, Azania Bank, Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA), Zanzibar Insurance Corporation ( ZIC) and Zanzibar State Trading Corporation ( ZSTC). Others are Zanzibar Bureau of Standards (ZBS), Zanzibar Social Security Fund (ZSSF), Zanzibar Investment Promotion Authority (ZIPA) and some hotels.