There is no doubt that Tanzania, the country that hosted it, will reap the proceeding benefits as it was the summit that aims to bring football to the next level. Graced by FIFA President Gianni Infantino, the summit surfaced many issues which are of much importance towards the improvement of football in the country and the whole world at large. It was simply an opportunity for the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) top officials led by its president Wallace Karia to air out burning issues to the world football governing body boss and his delegation about what strategies they have put ahead to reach the required development. Also, all the agendas which were discussed throughout the meeting were of much significance as far as promotion of football in the country is concerned. For instance, the issues of Youth and Women soccer development are what the entire world is advocating about so as to nurture hidden talent which is installed in young legs. The fact still remain that no football powerhouse countrywide has ever flourished without investing thoroughly in youth football by establishing academies which are fully equipped with football friendly facilities and trained workforce. Tanzania is lately blessed with a good number of football academies available in various parts of the nation and these are what every football fan is eagerly looking forward to and see the good works being done by these academies. Time has come for people to seriously put strong measures in ensuring that football standards are promoted from the underground level and see as many players from the land playing oversees. It was a good gesture when Infantino lauded the country’s ace striker Mbwana Samatta who trade his professional football at the Belgium’s club Genk and has been an inspiring figure ever since he joined the club. He further said Tanzania is a football talented country only that the nation face challenges of proper football management which have to be resolved in order to advance in this profession. Recognizing the good work being done by the country’s ace striker Mbwana Samatta who trade his professional football in Belgium was another important evidence that Tanzania is globally known through her sports personalities. Also, as the nation prepares to host the remarkable 2019 U-17 African Youth Championship (AYC), the issue of renovating the existing playing fields should never be underestimated. This will definitely be a rehearsal for organising other big football events that the world offers. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, also a key stakeholder as a former football player and a coach, was delighted to see FIFA picking Tanzania as the venue of the summit and was quick to laud the move when he met with FIFA President at his office in Dar es Salaam. Speaking with members of the press, the Premier said bringing the summit to Tanzania was a big honour to the success- hungry Tanzanians hence FIFA and the African football governing body CAF deserved big applauds for the move. The PM said he was impressed by efforts being done by both FIFA and CAF in creating clean sportsmanship by fighting corruption in football. “What both Fifa and CAF are doing in fighting corruption while increasing efforts in developing youth and women football are highly commended,” the Premier said after his meeting with Fifa and CAF delegates. Responding, Fifa President Gianni Infantino thanked Tanzanians for the hospitality they accorded him and his entourage. But, he as well explained that FIFA picked Tanzania after being impressed by its campaign to fight corruption and the hospitality of its people whom he said wear smiling faces whenever he sees them. He said he was delighted to see the Tanzania PM a good football enthusiast as FIFa class coach and former football player. Fifa President handed PM Majaliwa jersey number 9 of FIFA select squad as present, while the PM awarded FIFA and CAF top brass with ebony Makonde carving as a worthy traditional gift.