The deaths have touched President John Magufuli who has sent a consolation message to the Coast Regional Commissioner expressing how deeply he has been disturbed by the carnage. He has also ordered that a severe punishment be meted out on proven perpetrators. The Police Force alleges that “the driver of the lorry was driving at high speed at a sloppy section of the road and failed to negotiate a corner safely. He lost control of the lorry, lost direction and rammed into the mini-bus.” While we do not wish to prejudice the course of investigation and eventual justice, it is imperative to mentions here that rogue drivers who flout the Highway Code should face the wrath of the law. It is on record that some unruly drivers disregard traffic rules and regulations, and hence, cause mayhem on roads. These errant drivers are the main cause of the now numerous road accidents. It is these devil-may-care drivers who endanger the lives of passengers on rural roads and pedestrians in urban centres. They also endanger fellow motor vehicle drivers. Strict crackdowns of traffic offenders have been staged but the effort does not seem to work. It is imperative to point out here that some of the drivers, especially those who have never had driving lessons and do not possess driving licences, do not respect the Highway Code. The Highway Code is the set of rules and pieces of advice on how to use roads. These are based on road traffic law and good driving practice. Unfortunately, too many drivers do not even know what is entailed in the code. So, some drive at frightening speeds, even when travelling on the worst roads. Many of them hardly know what the roadside traffic signs require. And there are those who can hardly read or write. Some drive under the influence of alcohol. Some drivers behave like maniacs when handling motor vehicles. In yesteryears this nation saw the worst road carnage on highways, a situation that prompted calls for speed governors, especially on passenger busses. The Dar es Salaam Road Safety Board offered free education on traffic rules for drivers and motorcycle riders in a quest to curb accidents. This move took many people aback for, it came to light that most drivers did not even bother to acquire driving licences. Well, not much has changed since that time. In Dar es Salaam, boda boda riders are the most notorious for flouting the Highway Code. They handle their bikes with total disregard to road use regulations. They even disrespect red light signs and disregard zebra crosses. These villains often ride at break-neck speed, refuse to stop at red lights and often commit punishable misdemeanors even in the presence of a team of traffic officers. Most such offences are readily seen during the rush hours. It is high time the rot was stemmed.