In his Direction No 1 of 2018 to all Registrars, Court Administrators and other senior judicial officers, Prof, Juma quashed payments for copies of judgments, rulings, orders, decree and drawn orders of specified courts, countrywide. The move came into effect on March 6, 2018 and applies to all copies of documents before the High Court, Courts of Resident Magistrates, District Courts and Primary Courts. Some executive officers with the judiciary, including the Registrar of the High Court of Tanzania, Mr Ilvin Mgeta, acknowledged to have received the directive from the CJ and promised to start executing them with immediate effect. “I direct that no fees shall henceforth be payable by parties to civil proceedings in respect of any judgment, ruling, decree, orders or drawn orders in the High Court, Courts of Resident Magistrates, District Courts and Primary Courts,” the CJ ordered. He said the Court Fees Rules, 2018, which are undergoing final touchesbefore their promulgation shall revoke the Court Fees Rules, 2015, making copies of judgment, ruling, decree, orders or drawn orders readily available to the parties fee-free. According to the Court Fees Rules, 2015, payments for the court documents depend on the level of the court, but the minimum amount per copy was 5,000/-. But, the High Court’s Commercial Division charged fees depending on the number of words in each copy of the judgment, decree or order. The CJ further directed Deputy Registrars or Magistrates-in Charge to ensure that his directive is implemented forthwith while Court Administrators or Officers in Charge of Court Administration shall cause the copies to be sent to the party’s address for service in the proceedings. “Court Administrators or Officers in Charge of Court Administration shall ensure sufficient resources are availed to implement this direction and shall file periodic returns as may be directed from time to time by the Chief Court Administrator or the Chief Registrar,” Prof Juma directed. Several lawyers and members of the bar contacted for comment on the matter hailed the move, with Captain Ibrahim Bendera, a seasoned mariner and maritime law expert, describing it as an excellent decision towards timely dispensation of justice. Dr Onesmo Kyauke, another seasoned member of the bar in the country, said the CJ decision was a good initiative to help those who could not afford payments to obtain copies of such important documents in processing appeals or revisions. In the old Court Fees Rules, no such fees were paid in respect of criminal proceedings and there were no payments in respect of proceedings involving the government.