They were speaking during a discussion on the impending release of GMO seeds to peasants in Tanzania, an event that was organised by education stakeholders from the University of Dar es Salaam and attended by stakeholders from various sectors. They said that despite efforts put by researchers and the government in collaboration with various stakeholders, the community must be well educated on the importance of GMO seeds. Dr Goodluck Ole Medeye, the former Lands Deputy Minister, said that the question whether to start or abstain from the implementation of GMO in Tanzania was started years back, where there were those who agreed and others opposed the implementation of this new technology in the country. “The government and other stakeholders, including government officials discussed and realised that GMO technology is very important to farmers since it addresses many agricultural challenges. Due to that, the government allowed researchers to conduct intense research on GMO maize seeds a (confined field trials).” Adding, “the government gives researchers an opportunity to conduct the first research under confined field trials on the GMO in the country. It takes many years, and whether they agree or not will depend on the results”. He advised various stakeholders to give a chance to researchers to conduct their research, and after that farmers and the community will have a chance to decide whether to use or reject it, depending on the outcome. Biotechnology expert, Dr Nicholas Nyange said that debate on the implementation of GMO’s in Tanzania has given researchers a great opportunity to know how to expand understanding for citizens and farmers in general. “We are still on research stage. The technology will take a long process to be implemented by farmers and Tanzanians in general. We agreed to receive comments and views from various stakeholders on the technology.......but we have to remember that farmers are ready for new technology that will help to increase food production and incomes,” Dr Nyange explained. Dr Richard Mbunda from the University of Dar es Salaam said some of the major concerns that people are facing is the safety of foods derived from the GMO seeds. He specifically wanted to know how small farmers could benefit from the technology and how they will be able to obtain the seeds easily and cheaply when they are released for commercial purpose in the country