The 16 teams in Mainland Premier League and even in the First and Second divisions field players from almost all over the continent, but the majority of the key players among the imports come from Ghana, Burundi, Uganda, Congo DRC and Zimbabwe. While football is sky-rocketing ahead, lack of sponsorship has done a big damage to non-soccer sports to the extent that some of them are almost dead. Boxing and athletics which have been the country’s medal hopes in the world class events have faded from the limelight now, altogether with handball, netball, volleyball and basketball, most victims of sponsorship woes. The non-football sports hardly benefit from the billions spent annually on sponsorships, so sports bodies dealing with unpopular sports should find appropriate means that can solicit sponsors. While there is an increase in the commercial strength of the football league with shirt sponsorships like we see in SportPesa who backs Simba, Young Africans and Singida United, the less popular sports hardly draw attention of a sponsor. We think this is partly caused by the inefficient management of sports associations. A good thing though is the fact that sponsorship is helping taking our football places. We expect that in next year’s season the majority of the clubs will see an increase in the number of sponsorship deals . We don’t expect, at this moment when football continues to dwarf other sports, to see a saviour of the non-soccer sports, other than associations’ officials, teams and players involved in the particular sport. In the same vein, the campaign to revive other sports should be nationwide and to make it reach its desired goal, education on planning, organising and running sports events should be provided to the members and stakeholders of the particular sport. In short, officials governing non-football sports and their stakeholders should realise that modern day sports must be run professionally. They must organise tournaments that entertain spectators and lure sponsors, gifted players and good publicity. Let us all get involved in this sports revolution campaign, their progress means employment opportunities for the youth and the country’s fame in global are