The Deputy Minister, Mr Japhet Hasunga, closing a month-long course on Paramilitary Transformation Leadership here over the weekend, said, “Currently, my docket is haunted by acute shortage of 1,945 employees due to retirement of two people, weekly. Unfortunately, the rate of replacement is very slow.” He explained further that the shortage of civil servants is currently a countrywide challenge, stemming from verification of fake academic certificates and phantom workers. According to the deputy minister, the verification of fake academic certificates and ghost workers have been accomplished and so far the Tanzania Forest Service (TFS) has been given permit to recruit. Mlele District Commissioner (DC) Rachel Kasanda told the deputy minister that the district has 15,959 square kilometres wholly occupied by Katavi National Park andRukwa–Lwafi Forest Reserves, with only 559 square kilometres remaining for human settlement. Acting Katavi Regional Commissioner (RC) Lilian Matinga said that 58 per cent of Katavi region is occupied by Katavi National Park and five forest reserves, which are Tongwe East, Rukwa–Lwafi, Msaginya and Mpanda North East. The shortage of manpower sometimes impedes efforts to effectively manage the natural resources in the region, which is endowed with huge national park, forests and game reserves. Ms Kasanda told the deputy minister that Mlele district has planted 58,000 trees as wind breakers, following strong wind that swept across the precinct and killed six people, injured 43, rendering 83 families, homeless. The grisly incident occurred last year when strong wind swept the area. “TFS gave us 58,000 trees, with 50,000 of them planted at the most affected area,” said the DC, hinting that 4,000 trees were planted at Mpimbwe area and 4,000 others planted during the Women’s International Day celebrations. She further told the deputy minister that 29 people were arrested over illegal entry into Rukwa–Lwafi Forest Reserves where 2,600 timbers and 226 logs were confiscated during the recent operation. The course that officially started on February 26 through March 24, 2018 attracted 108 Senior Wardens from Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) and TFS. The course aimed at equipping trainees with sophisticated military skills which are currently applicable against poachers using modern techniques.