Speaking during a visit to the Muhimbili National Hospital Neonatal Unit, Vodacom Tanzania Foundation Director, Rosalynn Mworia said they are pleased to join the rest of the world to celebrate women everywhere particularly those in their own communities. “Today we are here with mothers and their preterm babies to share and celebrate the magic of life and to tell them women at Vodacom care for them too. “We have brought medical equipment and supplies for both mother and child as a show of solidarity on this battle for life,” she said. The Vodacom Foundation has been close to this cause for many years now and we remain committed working closely with the government to support the provision of affordable, quality health care solutions for every mother and every newborn. Ms Mworia pledged to continue to make crucial donations to the Neonatal Unit that will assist Muhimbili National Hospital to mitigate preventable newborn deaths. The donated supplies include: oxygen concentrators, nebulizer machines, digital weigh scales, surfactants, infusion pumps and continuous positive airway machines, as well as Pampers and khangas. The Director said Vodacom Tanzania Foundation was aware of the plight faced by women during pregnancy and childbirth in the country and aims to decrease neonatal and maternal mortality and morbidity attributable to childbirth in Tanzania. “We believe this is an important cause that needed much support to facilitate bettering the lives of both women and children in the country,” said Ms Mworia. Dr Mariam Kalomo who represented the deputy Minister of Health, Dr Faustine Ndugulile appreciated the donations while saying that this will help more in curbing shortage of medical equipment at the hospital. “Shortage of medical equipment normally leads to more neonatal deaths, as a result this will help us more to reduce the number of deaths which occur due to these challenges,” said Dr Kalomo. Receiving the donations, Sister Zuhura Mahona who represented the Muhimbili National Hospital Director General Prof Lawrence Maseru thanked Vodacom Tanzania Foundation while confirming to them that the donations will the used per the needy request. International Women's Day, which falls on 8 March every year, commemorates the global movement for women’s rights, equality and justice and calls for urgent action to ensure an adequate standard of living for women, access to nutrition, education and health, including their reproductive health and rights. The equipment being donated will provide premature newborns with treatment and care of the highest possible quality. Additionally, it will complement Vodacom Tanzania Foundation’s current efforts to alleviate the suffering and improve services for women and their infants. In collaboration with different health care partners, Vodacom Tanzania Foundation is facilitating transportation of women suffering from Obstetric Fistula to health-care centers, providing pre-natal care information to pregnant women as well as assisting pregnant women get access to properly trained medical professionals for safe delivery of their babies.