They were speaking in Dar es Salaam during a symposium themed, “Clinical Updates in Cardiology, Nephrology, Urology, Neurology, Oncology, Herpetology, Imaging and Clinical Pharmacy” which brought together health experts from India (Apollo Hospitals) and Tanzania. An expert from the Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI), Dr Godwin Sharau explained that newborns were among groups at risk, mainly due to lack of prior-pregnancy preparation. He released the Institute’s statistics which showed that last year, JKCI received over 1,000 patients but managed to treat only 450 – although records showed that 20,000 infants were born with heart complications countywide. “ … you can see how serious the problem is … only half of the children we received were treated last year. The rest were on the waiting list and we continue with treatments despite the fact that we have already received another 30 cases this year. That is for children, not counting the adults in need of medical care,” he said. Looked against global statistics which indicate that one in 100 newborns do come out (born) with heart complications; he advised couples to seek medical advice when thinking about having new babies. The experts were unanimous that the public needs to be educated on the need for preparing prior to pregnancy, saying couples need at least six months ahead of ‘childseeking processes’ (sexual intercourse), with both parents setting time for physical exercises, balance diet, avoid smoking and excess alcohol consumption. Senior Consultant Neurosurgeon from Apollo Hyderabad, Dr Vijay Dikshit commented that apart from genetics; half-cooked foods could further fuel the problem. He said an increase in cardiac patients automatically meant the need for more experts to deal with the situation; promising continuous mutual relationship between the two countries through experience sharing as well as providing trainings to local experts. The Chief Medical Officer in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Prof Muhammad Bakari praised experts’ efforts in improving health services; proposing for establishment of cardiovascular camps with a view to ‘completely avoiding sending patients abroad.’ “Not only cardiovascularrelated camps but it also could sound better if this Mloganzila hospital has organ transplant services. I do propose liver transplant. If Muhimbili and Mkapa Hospitals offer kidney transplants, let’s deal with the kidney (too) … the government will do whatever in its power to support this team from Apollo and other locals,” he proposed