However, ten of the African Union’s (AU) 55 member states did not sign the agreement. The summit was a step forward for the AU’s 2063 project for closer African integration, with 27 member states also signing a Protocol for the free movement of persons. In a set-back for the AU, Nigeria, one of Africa’s largest economies and the most populous, declined to sign the agreement. Nigeria’s President Buhari said: “We will not agree to anything that will undermine local manufacturers and entrepreneurs, or that may lead to Nigeria becoming a dumping ground for finished goods.” South Africa, also one of Africa’s largest economies, did not sign the agreement, but President Cyril Ramaphosa stated his commitment to the agreement once the necessary legal processes were undertaken. The president will sign the Kigali agreement immediately. If successful, it will be the biggest trade agreement since the formation of the World Trade Organization in 1995. But that is a great achievement in terms of initiation of the economic liberalization of African countries. Objectives of the CFTA Create a single continental market for goods and services, with free movement of business persons and investments, and thus pave the way for accelerating the establishment of the Continental Customs Union and the African customs union. Expand intra African trade through better harmonization and coordination of trade liberalization and facilitation regimes and instruments across RECs and across Africa in general. Resolve the challenges of multiple and overlapping memberships and expedite the regional and continental integration processes. Enhance competitiveness at the industry and enterprise level through exploiting opportunities for scale production, continental market access and better reallocation of resources. Background The 18th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the African Union, held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in January 2012, adopted a decision to establish a Continental Free Trade Area (CFTA). The Summit also endorsed the Action Plan on Boosting Intra- Africa Trade (BIAT) which identifies seven clusters: trade policy, trade facilitation, productive capacity, trade related infrastructure, trade finance, trade information, and factor market integration. The CFTA will bring together fifty- five African countries with a combined population of more than one billion people and a combined gross domestic product of more than US $3.4 trillion. Benefits of the Continental Free Trade Area The African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement (AFCFTA) is a step in the right direction and it will bring the following benefits to the continent. By reducing barriers to trade, such as removing import duties and non-tariff barriers, it will help accelerate continental integration because it will open up borders and help create a conducive environment for trade and investment. It will allow for the private sector to increase their investments because it opens up new opportunities for the private sector across the continent to collaborate and partner with counterparts. Free movement of people and goods, the Continental Free Trade Area will bring about opportunities for tourism across the continent, education for young people, as well as jobs. Despite expected losses in terms of tariff revenues for African countries, the benefits from the AFCFTA will be several times higher, especially through lower prices for consumer goods. Governments across Africa shouldn’t worry about losing tariff revenues when the agreement comes into effect because they will still make money from increased volumes of trade. Increased volumes of trade and investment will increase domestic taxes. Customs duty shall decrease but the decrease shall be compensated by the increase in domestic taxes such as VAT, income tax, and excise taxes. Africa countries already make little in tax revenue due to low level of trade with each other and with most of the goods produced in Africa being agricultural based. If we stay the way we are we will not collect more taxes, anyway. We have been closed for the last 50 years and it’s time to open up. Challenges to the implementation of the AFCFTA All countries on the continent that signed it might not move at the same pace. Countries with large productive capacities in manufacturing may experience significant economic growth while small economies may face substantial revenue losses in the short-run and this is likely to threaten local industries. This uneven distribution of benefits and costs among countries may prolong the implementation of the Continental Free Trade Area. In some countries, during the transition period, there is likely to be temporary raise in unemployment and slow down of economic activities in some sectors due to reallocation of resources, which might tempt the governments to react. For example, some countries may introduce policies to cushion these challenges and this could undermine the AFCFTA. Trade liberalisation is also likely to promote competition in local markets as some companies that will take advantage of economies of scale will grow faster than others and end up being monopolies. Governments may be tempted to implement complementary policies, such as competition policies or consumer protection policies, and if not implemented properly it may undermine the objectives of the AFCFTA. African governments will need to follow through with ratification, and reforming different business laws at the national level. The AFCFTA could improve trade between African countries, which in 2016 estimates stated accounted for only 10 per cent. The African Continental Free Trade Area is expected to create a single market covering all of the 55 African countries, which currently boast a population of 1.2 billion. With that population set to reach 2.5 billion by 2050 and representing 26 per cent of the global working age population according to estimates by the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, the African Continental Free Trade will lead to the world’s largest free trade area. The main question is, will this agreement come into force very quickly within the planned period of time of 6 months ? *Mohamed Mansour is an Assistant Lecturer and PhD candidate in Economics at Patrice Lumumba University in Moscow Email: mohamedmansour350@ gmail.com, mob: +255719945141