While thanking Tanzanians for maintaining peace and scorning anti-peace attitudes and attempts, the PM further implored them to remain steadfast on the question of maintaining peace and stability because, he said, investors avoid countries known for organised crime, chaos and turmoil. One of the reasons investors choose Tanzania, he said, is because peace and stability charactarise the country. Giving a vote of thanks at the end of the 11th TNBC meeting at State House, the Prime Minister said, “There is a close link between peace and economic growth. This is why one of the speakers from Arusha Region told this meeting that tourists have increased in Tanzania and the revenue has also increased sharply,” he said. Arusha delegate Willy Chambulo had earlier told the meeting that because security is now guaranteed in Arusha city, tourists have increased. Mr Chambulo, the Chairman of Tanzania Association of Tour Operators, said, “In the past the city was insecure and that was a big challenge to us. We had to choose safe routes for tourists. But, then government tightened security and now the city is peaceful.” Annual meetings of the Tanzania National Business Council (TNBC) are chaired by the national chairman, who is also the President of Tanzania. The PM thanked the chairman for giving ample time to representatives of the private sector to air their views, so that the government can give appropriate answers to issues raised. “I thank you, Mr Chairman, for giving answers to some of the grievances raised right here. The rest will have to be discussed in our meetings,” he said. The chairman gave ministers seven days to sort out issues raised by members of the private sector and present their reports to the Prime Minister. Delegates complained about the inappropriate approach used by some workers of the Tanzania Revenue Authority, accusing them of frustrating the national drive to increase public revenue. Mr Majaliwa cited an example in that vein, telling the meeting that while on a recent tour of Mtwara Region, a milk vendor complained to him that a TRA worker bought and drank a glass of milk and demanded an EFD receipt. The vendor did not produce one and was fined to his bankruptcy. The PM said the aim behind tax collection is not to harass people; rather it is to increase public revenue and make a taxpayer feel that paying tax is a noble duty to the nation.” The 40-member TNBC was started by retired President Benjamin William Mkapa in 2001 and draws equal members from the private and public sectors.