The police reports further indicate that Nondo, who is also Chairperson of Tanzania Students’ Networking Programme (TSNP) was, in fact, found in his girlfriend’s home in Mafinga District. Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander, Mr Lazaro Mambosasa, told journalists yesterday that the student was being held on suspicion of spreading false information - that he had been ‘kidnapped’ by unidentified people. He said preliminary investigation established that Nondo was found in his girlfriend’s home at Mafinga, Iringa Region on March 7th, this year. “ … He was in good health and went about his activities without much add … even he was reporting to the police station that he was being kidnapped,” revealed Commander Mambosasa. According to him, Nondo was regularly communicating with his girlfriend on his cellphone all the way to Iringa Region. “… When he was found, he was sent to the Iringa Region Referral Hospital for more tests to find out his health condition … and we discovered that he had not been given any drugs to lose his consciousness… his body also had sustained no wounds (injuries),” Commander Mambosasa intimated. Information about the disappearance of the suspect began spreading on March 3, this year, through various social media outlets. The information claimed that Nondo had been kidnapped by unidentified people. News of Nondo’s kidnapping spread just days after he had spoken to some media outlets urging the Minister for Home Affairs, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba, to resign his position due to incidents of alleged ‘disappearances and murders of several people’ across the country. Commander Mambosasa revealed that Nondo would be treated like a common criminal and therefore would be charged before the court of law. In another development, police in Dar es Salaam are holding two suspects for car thefts. The suspects were identified as Fadhili Saidi (37) and Kassim Iddy (38), both residents of Dar es Salaam Region. The suspects were allegedly found in possession of a stolen car, T 723 DDR, which was earlier reported to have been stolen at Kinyerezi Bonyokwa area within the Ilala Municipality in January, this year. According to Commander Mambosasa, the suspects were under police custody for further investigations – with a view to establishing their entire network before being taken to court.