The Vice-Chancellor of Ardhi University, Prof Evaristo Liwa observed at a stakeholders workshop to support implementation of the VGGT of land, fisheries and forestry in Tanzania, held in Dar es Salaam yesterday. According to Prof Liwa, the public has a responsibility to support its implementation to achieve food security for all and support the progressive realization of the right to adequate food in the context of national food security. “Now more than ever there’s increasing public concern on equitable access to resource discrimination, conflict between farmers and pastoralists, forced evictions and corruption, among others. “More efforts are now directed at addressing these issues… the voluntary guideline is yet another tool to support efforts various stakeholders are taking to address these challenges,” said Prof. Liwa. Among other things, Prof Liwa noted the dire need for the guidelines to be translated into keen secure land rights for women and marginalized groups in the country. However, he pointed out that the training was also aimed at initiating the national process for implementing the guidelines in Tanzania by bringing together all key stakeholders to start the planning process. Ardhi University is among key players in raising public awareness, and working with communities has helped reach out to them and gain experience that would be channeled to teaching and enhance the opportunity to the national agenda. “We extend recognition to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations for their support … in financing the project and allow the University contribute by conducting training and workshops to raise awareness to the community,” the VC noted. The Land Tenure and Food Security Specialist at FAO (Tanzania), Mr Bradley Paterson said ‘we see’ it as a priority as land and natural resources are vital for they underpin so many initiatives livelihoods, technology, development, tourism empowerment and rural development. “We feel that we can partner with Tanzania and support the government in improving responsible governance of tenure in the country. “FAO is very keen to continue supporting Tanzania and would like to work on issues such as registration, address conflict related to land as well as supporting women’s equals rights to natural resources in the near future,” Mr Paterson said