The Committee Chairman, Mtama Member of Parliament (MP), Nape Nnauye, told reporters that the committee visited several villages including Rwengiri, Bwenkoma and Bubale in Misenyi District’s Kakunyu Ward and were shocked as there were no clear boundary marks. “ What is more alarming is that people and livestock were crossing the border randomly posing a security risk. Border roads are of paramount importance,” he said. According to Mr Nape, the government has been urged to provide funds for infrastructure development including airstrips in the national game reserves. The regional economic profile reveals that the region has five game reserves with a total of 5,526 square kilometres. The game reserves include Biharamulo (1,300 kms); Burigi (2,200 kms); Kimisi (1,026 kms); Rumanyika (800 kms) and Ibanda (200 kms). Various types of wildlife are found in these game reserves. They include elephants, lions, giraffes, buffaloes, leopards, hippopotamus and antelopes, to mention but a few. Mr Nape was delighted after seeing the wild animals, calling for intensified efforts to ensure that the natural resources were well preserved for the benefit of future generations. We have to ensure that the natural resources are preserved. More education is also needed to enable people know the value of natural resources. It was a great relief as herds of giraffes, zebras and antelopes greeted the Parliamentary Committee for Lands, Natural Resources and Tourism when the committee visited the game reserves over the weekend. The wild animals had almost perished due to poaching and illegal hunting, which forced the government to take measures, that includes removal of thousands of uncontrolled livestock from the forest and game reserves through “Operation Ondoa Mifugo katika Hifadhi.” The Principal Game Warden from the Tanzania World Life Authority (TAWA), Bigilamungu Kagoma, revealed that during “Operation Ondoa Mifugo katika Hifadhi,” a total of 13,806 livestock were rounded up, out of which a number 68,498 livestock were confiscated. To-date about 8,034 livestock had been sold through auction, fetching revenue amounting to 2,097,351,000/- . About 360 suspects were nabbed, while 164 cases were filed in court and so far 137 cases had been determined. During his tour in Kagera Region in July, last year, President John Magufuli directed leaders to ensure that no livestock were allowed to return to the game reserves. The Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamis Kigwangala, informed the committee that investment opportunities include photographic tourism, canoeing, sport fishing, walking safaris and camping. TAWA Chief Executive Officer (CEO), James Wakibara, revealed that the Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute (TAWIRI) was conducting research on the type of wild animals which would be introduced in the Burigi Game Reserve.