On Sunday the 25th February, 2018 ahead of the opening of Mobile World Congress, held in Barcelona, Spain; the GSMA presented Huawei Technologies with the 2018 Award for Outstanding Contribution to the Mobile Industry. The award was presented at a special ceremony, where Huawei was recognised for decades of advocating new technology standards, driving digital transformation and building out the digital ecosystem. At the ceremony, Ken Hu, Rotating and Acting CEO at Huawei, accepted the award on behalf of the company. “Over the years, we have worked with many of you to advance 3G, 4G – and now 5G and other ICT technologies,” he said, “ Huawei has connected over one-third of the world’s population. Since the mobile industry is evolving, it will soon become the cornerstone of a fully connected, intelligent world.” Mr Gao Mengdong, the Huawei Country General Manager, said that on the same day at Mobile World Congress, Huawei launched its HUAWEI 5G customerpremises equipment (CPE), the world’s first commercial terminal device supporting the globally recognised 3GPP telecommunication standard for 5G. This device marks a milestone as Huawei sets the stage for the next generation of wireless connectivity. He said that to ensure peak performance from its 5G CPE, Huawei uses its selfdeveloped Balong 5G01 chipset – the world’s first commercial chipset supporting the 3GPP standard for 5G, with theoretical downlink speeds of up to 2.3Gbps. It supports 5G across all frequency bands including sub-6GHz and millimeter wave (mmWave) to offer a complete 5G solution suitable for multiple use cases. “The Balong 5G01 makes Huawei the first company offering an end-to-end 5G solution through its network, devices and chipset-level capabilities. The Huawei low frequency 5G CPE is small and lightweight, compatible with 4G and 5G networks and has proven measured download speeds of up to 2Gbps – 20 times that of 100Mbps fiber, said Mr Mengdong, adding that this provides an ultra-fast experience, allowing users to enjoy VR video and gaming experiences or download a TV show within a second. The Huawei high frequency 5G CPE is available in indoor and outdoor units. He said that 5G networks set new standards for high speed, wide bandwidth, low latency wireless connections, with a peak downlink rate of 20Gbps, support for one million devices per square kilometre and latency as low as 0.5ms, adding that it promises an enhanced connection between people and the Internet of Things, raising the potential for the number of devices that can be connected and the amount and type of data that can be shared. He said that Huawei has invested 600m US dollar in research and development into 5G technologies and have led the way with innovations around network architecture, spectrum usage, field verification and more. From connected vehicles and smart homes to AR/VR and hologram videos, Huawei has committed to developing a mature 5G ecosystem so that consumers can benefit from a truly connected world that transforms the way we communicate and share