The exhibition known as Internationalle Tourismus Borse (ITB), is the world largest and Tanzania is showcasing its tourist attractions among 187 countries participating in the show. Tanzania’s delegation is led by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Major General Gaudence Milanzi. The Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB) Managing Director, Ms Devota Mdachi, said the Tanzania pavilion is one of the major attractions among more than 10,000 exhibitors because of Tanzania’s natural beauties and the hospitality of its people. Tanzania is trading itself confidently in the show under a slogan: Tanzania, Africa’s best safari country, she said, adding that “now that many people are visiting us with enquiries, we are very, very hopeful. ” Tanzania is also proving to visitors the impeccable evidence of its strong links to the cradle of mankind, she explained. The MD said this year’s thrust is to attract big numbers of tourists from more Western countries to visit Tanzania. “Currently, we are receiving many tourists from Britain, Germany, Italy and France. Our 2017 statistics show that we received 58,370 tourists from Germany. This is an increase of 727 tourists when compared to 57,643 guests we received from Germany alone in 2016.” She also explained that the Tanzanian delegation was visited and counselled by the Chairman of the East African Community Sectoral Council for Wildlife and Tourism, Professor Ephraim Kamuntu, who is Uganda’s Minister for Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities. Ms Mdachi said: “The Chairman underscored the importance of cooperation between Tanzania and Uganda in matters linked to tourism. He also said many advantages are lost for lack of cooperation and coordination as an EAC bloc, adding that world tourists want to see new things, which he said are abound in the bloc and which will make them visit EAC countries. ” The annual Berlin fair is hugely significant in promoting world tourism. This year alone it will be attended by some 120,000 trade visitors or companies engaged in tourism-related activities and some 6000 journalists. Sixty private and public companies are operating under a giant Tanzania pavilion coordinated by the TTB.