Donning splendid regalia, conspicuous features of which include flowing gowns, robes and fanciful, somewhat oversize hats, they depict the subjects as high academic achievers. On the surface, a university degree is an embodiment of high academic achievement. It literary summarises the story of the achiever as someone who emerged victorious after a very challenging academic battle. The battle features phases stretching from kindergarten when he or she struggles to cram the alphabet, to university, when the ‘academic warrior’ was crowned victor as someone who had become a repository of knowledge in fields like law, engineering, medicine, accountancy and business administration. Back to the pictures of graduates that decorate sitting rooms, however, they do, to some extent, represent a partial rather than full story. The incompleteness of the story is captured by the mismatch between someone who is presumed to have been launched on a mission of being a resourceful nation builder, but who is either an underperformer, or an outright failure. Why? Well, a graduation photo is merely a symbolic, sentimental, record keeping facility, beyond which the person it depicts must be meaningfully active, rather than passive. Here-in lies the significance of the sentiments voiced recently by the Prime Minister, Mr Kassim Majaliwa. In remarks made after meeting the new Vice-Chancellor of the University of Dar es Salaam, Professor William Anangisye in the city, he laid much emphasis on top academic institutions acting as producers of job creators. He was reinforcing a theme which is a common thread that runs through speeches delivered and remarks made by several highprofile personalities in politics, economic, social and religious fields. That is understandable and must be sustained. Rather than focusing entirely on salaried employment, graduates, as repositories of much knowledge, should strive to both create openings for selfemployment, and for their less academic and professionally endowed compatriots to enhance their livelihoods. As we, Tanzanians, are grappling with attaining industrial economy status, we must apply all potentially helpful tools and tap onto all potentially helpful ideas towards that end. The role of universities and those it produces as crucial facilitators, has to be constantly hammered home, as Premier Majaliwa did recently. Else, degrees would be merely decorative pieces of paper, not much different from say, children playing on a sandy beach