The new move effectively terminates use of the town’s busiest commuter bus terminal, Jamatin, pushing it to the eastern suburban Nane Nane area, some 12km out of town en route to Dar es Salaam. Sumatra’s Central Zone Principal Officer Conrad Shiyo told reporters the commuter bus routes would now change, mostly increasing distance from one station to the next. He said the decision was reached after the Authority held discussions with traffic police and the Association of Dala Dala Owners in the region (UWEDO). Buses plying between the University of Dodoma (Udom) and Veyula would now drive from Udom through the Prime Minister’s Office, onward to Posta, General Hospital, Independence Square, Sango and, finally, NBC and Veyula. From Veyula, the bus would take the Paradise route through Nyerere Square, Posta to Udom.“Buses from Nala will use the Sango-General Hospital- Posta to Benjamin Mkapa Hospital. On return, they would take the Posta, General Hospital, and Independence Square route to Nala,” he said. A new route has also been created from Veyula to the Nane Nane show grounds. Other buses would take the route passing through Paradise, Nyerere and CBE onward to Nane Nane show grounds, and hence to CBE-Carnival to the regional general hospital, Independence Avenue, Sango, then from NBC to Veyula. From Chang’ombe commuter buses would now ply through Paradise, Nyerere and CBE, onward to the Nane Nane show grounds. They would then return through CBE, Carnival, General Hospital, Independence Avenue and Sango – on the way to Chang’ombe. The officer says from St Gema, buses going to Swaswa or Nane Nane grounds would pass Paradise and Nyerere, CBE and from Nane Nane would go past CBE at Carnival and use the same route to St Gema. “Dala dala commuters from Nkuhungu would stop at Sango, general hospital, CBE onward to the Nane Nane grounds and go back through Carnival and Sango,” he noted. Other changes include commuter bus from Mkonze through Kikuyu, Majengo, General CBE to Nane Nane and back via CBE, carnival, General, Kikuyu and Majengo. Those plying Swaswa, Uzunguni and Nane Nane grounds would now stop at CBE, Carnival to Saba Saba roads, Makole and back to CBE. Sumatra argues that the new changes seek to transform the transport system and improve services within urban Dodoma and that a car, according to the authority, would have to stop for seven minutes at every station. Mr Shiyo urged commuters, however, not to expect a bus stopping at Jamatin from Thursday this week. The plan, according to Sumatra, is to ensure all the buses settle at the Nane Nane grounds, where an ultra-modern bus terminal would soon be set up.