Addressing the sixth TSN Business Forum held in Zanzibar on Friday, the Minister for Trade and Industries, Ambassador Amina Salum Ali, urged investors from Mainland and outside Tanzania to take advantage of business and investment opportunities offered on the Indian Ocean semi-autonomous archipelago. "We're inviting investors from Mainland Tanzania and outside Tanzania to come and invest in Zanzibar. There are so many opportunities in Zanzibar and we set up investor friendly policies," Amb. Ali stated. She insisted that the policies and conditions put in place by the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar have made the Isles more investor- friendly and encouraged interested investors to come and invest on the spicy Island. "The government has done well in putting in place a good policy environment that is more favourable for investors," she said. The Minister lauded TSN for taking the forum to Zanzibar, saying the event was a great opportunity for potential investors and small entrepreneurs to be availed with important information on opportunities. Urban West Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Ayoub Mohamed Mahmoud, also trumpeted for investors to turn their eye to Zanzibar, insisting that the Island is politically, socially and economically stable. "Security, peace and tranquility are available in Zanzibar, making it an ideal place for investors that need to do business here. Mr Mahmoud said there are plenty of investment opportunities on the Island, ranging from tourism, business and trade, housing, construction, agricultural and services sectors. "We also have friendly infrastructure for trade and commerce, the Malindi Port and Amani Abeid Karume International Airport," he said. The RC also commended the TSN for heeding to Zanzibar Second Vice-President's call to organise the forum in Zanzibar. "We really needed this forum; it's a worthwhile platform that will unveil economic opportunities available in Zanzibar." Speaking during the event, TSN Board Chair Hab Mkwizu said apart from collecting, preparing and disseminating news to the public, it was TSN's responsibility to contribute to economic growth and that the business forums were part of that role. Mr Mkwizu said the forums served as platforms for business and investment stakeholders toprovide information, guidance and assistance to potential investors in their quest to establish businesses in diverse fields. Previous forums were held in Simiyu, Mwanza, Shinyanga and Tanga. The Zanzibar Business Forum, which climaxed yesterday with trade exhibitions, was coordinated by TSN in close cooperation with the Second Vice-President’s office and the ministry for trade and industry. The two-day event brought together key policy-makers, government officials, investors and prominent businesspeople to discuss business and investment opportunit