Chief Executive Officer (CEO) for Al-Muntazir Schools, Mr Mohamood Ladak said yesterday in Dar es Salam during the World Autism Day commemorations that, the government should also encourage to adopt the same stance as a means of acknowledging their contribution in the society. He explained that the schools, which run special programmes for autism students, have already shown an example, as it employs some of its Institution’s products. “Even if their schooling costs are high, they are capable of engaging in various activities in line with one’s talent or choice. We have already produced many products in various fields, including handcrafts and sports. Last December, our autism students participated in International Olympics in Zanzibar,” he noted. He further explained that his institution was very determined to educate the victims through providing education at only 3m/- per year while its cost is not less than 6m/- per head, in other institutions. Al-Muntazir Schools have a capacity of accommodating 100 students and currently has 80, aged between three and 20. The CEO said the problem was critical, calling upon other stakeholders’ contributions to back up Al-Muntazir’s efforts in serving the needy. Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndungulile said the government prioritised children’s welfare, whose rights the rest of community members should strive to protect and enhance. He stressed the importance of Article 21 of the Child Act of 2009 which recognises the rights and welfare of a child, mostly of being taken care of, protected, not to be subjected to hard labour, and be integrated and developed. “The government sets aside, among others, schools and enacts special curriculum for children with special needs. It is also concerned with availability of colleges for teachers skilled in handling such students in schools and vocational studies’ institutions,” Dr Ndugulile explained. He reiterated the government’s commitment towards expanding the scope in supporting people with disabilities and continued to collaborate with private and individuals to that end. On her side, the Deputy National Assembly Speaker, Dr Tulia Ackson, called upon other private schools to emulate Al-Muntazir Schools by serving children with autism, including setting dormitories for those from remote areas . “These children are everywhere, countrywide. Those in poor families are always denied education right since parents do not afford the expenses despite the victims’ different talents, which have the potential of being beneficial. God has His intention when creating different types of people. So, people with disabilities have their contribution in the society, sometimes outshining those without disabilities. Let us support, respect and protect them,” she added.