Africa Zone president at AB InBev, Richard Tadeu told President John Magufuli at State House yesterday that they had set aside 100 million US dollars for the investment of the new brewery plant in Dodoma, according to a statement from President's Office. AB-InBev holds 57.5 per cent of TBL, the largest brewer in Tanzania with large-scale brewing factories in Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, Mbeya and Arusha regions. Mr Tadeu who had paid a courtesy call on President Magufuli congratulated the Tanzanian leader for managing investments in Tanzania and promoting the country as an attractive investment destination. He said TBL would continue to be a good tax payer and would increase employment through support to barley, sorghum and maize crops farmers whose crops are used in beer production. President Magufuli assured Ab-InBev leader that the government would continue to cooperate with TBL and commended the beer making company for being a good tax payer and for the plans to construct another brewing plant in Dodoma. He said the government would take measures to protect local industries and called on Ab-InBev and other investors to increase investments in the country and benefit from large domestic market boosted by rapid expanding mid-income earners. Basing on her strategic location, Tanzania offered ample trade and investment opportunities and an access to a market of more than 150 million people in East African Community (EAC) region. It guarantees access to a market of more than 300 million people in Eastern and Southern Africa in which Tanzania enjoys preferential trading arrangements by virtue of being a member of SADC and EAC. Tanzania also enjoys a competitive edge above other countries in the region due to its geographical positioning as it is also a gateway to six landlocked countries in Eastern and Central Africa, providing natural access to DR Congo, Rwanda, Burundi, Zambia, Malawi and Uganda. The Minister for Industry, Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage and Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) Commissioner General, Charles Kicheere also attended the meeting.