The forum, which has been organised in the Isles by the State owned media house in collaboration with the office of the second Vice President, Zanzibar Business Council, the Office of Urban West Regional Commissioner and the Zanzibar Ministry of Trade and Industries, is expected to attract entrepreneurs, businesspersons and service providers. The major objective of the forum would be to explore business and service opportunities available in Zanzibar, considering the fact that there are still abundant opportunities yet to be exploited in the Island. The forum is expected to be presided over by 300 to 400 participants, with the second Vice President, Ambassador Seif Ali Idd, gracing it as the chief guest. However, a source confided that he might send a representative, because of other pressing activities elsewhere. Zanzibar leaders, including Urban West Regional Commissioner, Ayoub Mohammed Mahmoud , Zanzibar Minister of Information, Tourism and Anthropology, Mr Mahamoud Thabit Kombo, Minister of State in the Zanzibar President’s Office and Chairman of the Revolutionary Council, Mr Issa Haji Ussi and Minister of Trade and Industries, Ambassador Amina Salum Ali, have hailed the TSN’s initiative, terming it the forum that will bring together the business community members to deliberate on investment opportunities available in the Isles. Emphasising along the line, Ambassador Amina Ali has called upon TSN management to also include multiple business forums in its preparations in the Isles, instead of mainstreaming on only one. “Zanzibar has a large number of business opportunities that need to be promoted, ranging from tourism, construction, spices, fishing, and trade to housing sector etc. All these need to be promoted and I think TSN can help us in this endeavour,” she further said. In the rejoinder, TSN Managing Editor, Dr Jim Yonazi has said Zanzibar Business Forum is expected to open the semi-autonomous state to the outside world, in terms of exploiting marketing business opportunities available in the archipelago. “We organise these forums with the major objective of showing one another areas that can create business opportunities for any interested person, and also attract investment, because we feel that some areas are not fully exploited, because the public is not aware of them,” he pointed out. On his side, TSN Sales and Marketing Manager (SMM), Mr Januarius Maganga pointed out that the forum will help to boost the Island’s economy, including improving the lives of its citizens. “Not everyone knows investment opportunities that are available in Zanzibar… these forums are ideal in enlightening one another,” he further said, adding: “Today’s forum becomes the fifth occasion following similar ones organised in Simiyu, Mwanza, Tanga and Shinyanga Regions.” Other dignitaries who attended the forum include the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe and TSN Board Chairperson, Hab Mkwizu.