Representatives of both the public and private sectors had their fingers crossed; guessing on the kind of chairman they would be having. That feeling was shared by individuals outside the council. On the eve of the May 6 meeting, commentator Abdel Kiala put on social media platform the following: “It is a test on both sides of the coin. This is a new face in the TNBC chair and everyone is waiting to hear what the man will say. He is at the helm with his fingers on the controls. What he will say counts and will help shed light on what he has at the back of his mind.” Pre-meeting anxiety and even unease were understandably rife. But 10th meeting turned out to be a beautiful, meeting. The President urged government representatives to listen to grievances, opinions and suggestions by representatives of the private sector. For the most part of the meeting private sector representatives steamed out problems, commented on challenges and made suggestions. Government representatives, in a highly limited time, reacted to what was said by private sector representatives. The government promised prompt action. The private sector, popularly called ‘the engine of the economy’ is eager “to thrive”. It always calls, and rightly so, for “an enabling and predictable environment to succeed.” On Monday, at the same venue, 10 months and 13 days later the President will preside over the 11th meeting of the council. But this time everyone knows the kind of a national chairman the TNBC has. He abhors corruption in all its manifestations. He demands action. At personal level MrMagufuli is a kind of person who does not mince words! He does not fancy empty pledges or lies; he walks the talk. Taking social services to the poor, especially in rural areas; establishing industries and putting in place physical infrastructure that will help spur economic growth are part of key priorities. But pledges on social services delivery without collecting public revenues, especially taxes and levies, is a very big hoax. Once public monies have been collected Mr Magufuli insists that public money be spent on agreed projects without diversion. Mischief is punished without a veil! Wide-spread corruption does not sustain a nation’s image; it undermines it. Tax evasion makes government poorer not richer. The world now acknowledges Tanzania’s struggle against corruption. The struggle is far from over but the gains are significant. This is a second meeting to be chaired by President Magufuli. He is no longer, to use Mr Kiala’s word, the relatively unfamiliar powerful man “at the helm with his fingers on the controls.” What he has said and done has revealed his ambitions. Delivery on education, sharp increases on health and water provision projects; his insistence on industrialising Tanzania and strive to make it a middle-income nation by 2025. The electricity and the standard gauge railway projects, for example, are testimony to implementation of his development agenda. Every region is tasked to start industries in order to create jobs, use gainfully available raw materials and produce commodities for local and external market. National institutions are dutybound top to explain policies and regulations in order to attract local and foreign direct investment flows into Tanzania. During last year’s meeting government representatives promised to tackle problems and challenges exposed by the private sector. During this meeting these representatives will have to account for their promises. The second supreme organ of the TNBC is the executive committee, chaired by the chief secretary. The executive committee prepares the council’s meeting and follows up decisions made by the meetings. A report on the last meeting will be tabled. The TNBC Executive Secretary, Engineer Raymond Mbilinyi, said in a statement on this meeting that the gathering, among other things, will discuss acceleration of the industrialisation drive. “To date more than 3,500 new industries have been established since the fifth phase government assumed power. Accelerating industrial development drive requiring the government to create an enabling and predictable environment for private sector to thrive,” he stressed. The meeting will also receive and discuss a feedback on recommended policy options meant to transform the national economy. Meanwhile, there have been rewarding successes. In recent months the World Bank praised government actions and its cooperation with the private sector. The bank, for instance, backed training of permanent secretaries on how to engage productively with the private sector. Permanent secretaries are civil servants with incredible leverage. There are indications that 11th meeting, hopefully, will be as successful as the preceding meeting held last year. According to the TNBC boss, the council has been providing forums for private sector to engage with the government at regional and district levels through Regional Business Councils (RBCs) under the leadership of Regional Commissioners and District Business Councils (DBC) under the leadership of District Commissioners respectively. “These forums provide opportunities for the private sector at the grassroots level to engage with the government on matters pertaining to business environment and investment opportunities in their localities by promoting local economic development solutions,” he said.