ORPHANAGE supervisors in Dar es Salaam have advised the government to set up the system which could help orphans to get health insurance. The advice was made by the Founder and Director of Amani Orphanage Foundation Ms Zubeda Abdallah in Kigamboni District in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. The center is based at Kibada area in the district. She advised that through the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elders and Children in collaboration with other health stakeholders, the government can find out the way to help orphans living in various orphanages to get health insurance and avoid the challenges they face for medical treatments when they get sick. “ On behalf of other orphanages in our region and countrywide, may I advise the government through the relevant Ministry to help these children to get health insurance because they face challenges to get medical treatment when they get sick,” she said. Ms Zubeda made the advice on Saturday evening when the staffs of the Ministry of Finance and Planning in Isles and Mainland visited the orphanages and donated some foodstuffs and other kits to support the children living at the center especially during the Ester eve. The representative of the staff for the Ministry in Isles, Mr Hamid Tahir Kassim said it has been their custom for the workers of the Ministry to use the season of Easter eve to join together, either in isles or mainland and share ideas. “Today we also played football for men and netball for women in the grounds of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM). The aim is to maintain cooperation between us and share to solve challenges facing the community as we can afford,” he said. On his part the Acting Director for the Ministry in the Mainland, Mr Alfred Dede has advised other private and public institutions to cope their custom especially in visiting and help the people with separate problems in the community. Either, he used the chance to encourage the orphans who get opportunities of getting education to study hard and believe that they could reach their goals