This typically happens when men consume 5 or more drinks or women consume 4 or more drinks in about 2 hours. Today I am reminding you that the evidence that used to be claimed about alcohol consumption is protective to the heart is being revoked. Why? The reason is because many people have misinterpreted the benefits that have been proclaimed and instead they resorted to binge drinking. Worldwide, binge drinking is most common among younger adults aged 18–34 years, but more than half of the total binge drinks are consumed by those aged 35 and older. Binge drinking is also twice more common among men than among women. During the last two decades or more a considerable body of evidence has been built indicating that moderate alcohol intake is associated with a reduced incidence of coronary heart disease and all cause- mortality. There is also substantial evidence that problem drinking (well beyond two drinks per day) is associated with increased risk of other chronic conditions. Scientific evidence has definitely shown that heavy drinking can increase the risk of all-cause death, but moderate alcohol consumption could have ‘protective’ health effects. Evidence to support the cardio-protective effects of alcohol consumption among humans is abundant and strikingly consistent. Over 100 observational studies using different study designs of cross cultural, case-control and prospective cohort types and over 80 short term human metabolic studies suggesting cardiovascular benefits for 1–2 alcoholic beverages per day. Now, the existing evidence finding cardiovascular benefits from low-dose alcohol consumption is being shown to be weak, and emerging evidence seems to suggest that these protective effects are spurious (i.e., do not exist, or are harmful). The view that alcohol confers health benefits is therefore even less of a valid counter-argument against the adoption. The other reason we should worry about binge drinking is because some people drink and drive. Young people especially, drink “viroba” starting from the morning and by the end of the day they are dead drunk. If you get a chance to visit any hospital in the country and go to any surgical wards dealing with orthopaedic and trauma patients in many hospitals you will notice we have a major public health problem to address. After passing around such wards you will then agree with me that we should do something to address the pathetic situation. The wards are full of young male patients who have been involved in the famous “bodaboda” two wheel motorcycle accidents. The young boys tend to drive recklessly and they don’t even respect the road signs or street lights even if there is traffic police present there. Of late the government banned the sale of viroba but binge drinking hasn’t been reduced. The size of the bottles of beer has been reduced and alcohol concentration has also to some extent been reduced. Binge drinking is associated with many other health problems including the following: (1) Violence including homicide, suicide, intimate partner violence, and sexual assault. (2) Unintentional injuries such as car crashes, falls, burns, and alcohol poisoning (3) Sexually transmitted diseases. (4) Unintended pregnancy and poor pregnancy outcomes, including miscarriage and stillbirth. (5)Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders. (6) Sudden infant death syndrome. (7) Chronic diseases such as high blood pressure, stroke, heart disease, and liver disease. (8) Cancer of the breast, mouth, throat, esophagus, liver, and colon. (9) Memory and learning problems. (10)Alcohol dependence. Binge drinking is very costly to everyone in the country. Drinking too much, including binge drinking, costs many governments billions of money. The costs result from losses in workplace productivity, health care expenditures, criminal justice costs, and other expenses. Some countries have applied evidence-based interventions to prevent binge drinking and related harms. The recommended strategies include: (1) They use pricing strategies, including increasing alcohol taxes. (2) They limit the number of retail alcohol outlets that sell alcoholic beverages in a given area. (3) They hold alcohol retailers responsible for the harms caused by illegal alcohol sales to minors or intoxicated patrons (dram shop liability). (4)They restrict access to alcohol by maintaining limits on the days and hours of alcohol retail sales. (5) They consistently enforce laws against underage drinking and alcohol-impaired driving. (6) They maintain government controls on alcohol sales (avoid privatisation). (7) They provide access for screening and counseling for alcohol misuse. To sum up, as I have pointed out, the evidence that exists which encouraged people to consume alcohol since it (alcohol) was said to be protective against coronary heart disease has been reviewed and has now been revoked. It is now weaker because the data that have been examined have been shown to have many confounding attributes to exposure to alcohol and coronary heart disease. The recommended approach is that people should drink alcohol moderately and avoid heavy boozing since the long term effects are detrimental because of the association with chronic diseases including heart and kidney diseases, diabetes and cancers. ● Prepared by: Gernard Msamanga, MD ScD, Professor of Community Health, Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (MUHAS), P.O. Box 65015, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. E-mail: g,msamanga748@ gmail.com, Phone: (+255) 754 291971