The Head of State is currently on official tour of Arusha and Manyara regions whose itinerary commenced yesterday and he is expected to be in the Northern Zone until next Monday. Among other duties while here, the President is to witness the Mass to consecrate the Eminent Bishop Isaac Amani Massawe, who becomes the fourth Head of the Catholic Archdiocese here, when he takes over the reins tomorrow. Bishop Massawe is replacing the outgoing Archbishop Dr Josaphat Louis Lebulu, who retires this year after serving the Arusha Archdiocese for twenty years. Dr Lebulu, who took over the reins at Arusha Catholic Archdiocese eighteen years ago in 1999, had tendered his retirement request to Vatican last June 2017 and he got an affirmation response from the Bishop of Rome, Pope Francis last December granting him the well needed rest. “We expect the dedication Mass to start at about 10am on Sunday, tomorrow at the Saint Theresa Catholic Cathedral,” said Father Festus Mangwangi, the church spokesperson. Currently under expansion, the church is the oldest Christian building in the city centre. Aged 75 years, Archbishop Lebulu had moved here from Same Diocese in 1999, coming to replace Bishop Fortunatus Lukanima who stepped down from the Arusha Diocese in 1998 through resignation. The new Head of the Catholic Church in Arusha, Bishop Massawe hails from the Moshi Diocese. Bishop Massawe, an alumnus of Kibosho Seminary, was ordained as a priest back in 1975 and became the head of the Moshi Diocese in 2008. At the moment, the Arusha Catholic Archdiocese is working to transform the Saint Theresa Town Parish building into a fully-fledged Cathedral through ongoing construction of new and larger structure. Before the Mass, President Magufuli toured Mirerani Mining Hills in Simanjiro District of Manyara yesterday and inspect ed as well as inaugurated the newly built wall which surrounds the Tanzanite quarries. The Head of State is also inaugurating the new Police Quarters whose construction he helped to fund, as well as witnessing special police force drill and demonstration to be held at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium today. The Arusha Catholic Archdiocese was the first church to be establish in the area, which later became Arusha City back in 1936 under the late Bishop Dennis Durning, whose body lies inside the Saint Elizabeth Catholic Parish (Kwa Father Babu) in Ngarenaro-Levolosi.