The National Youth Development Policy (2007), focuses on ensuring that entrepreneurship skills training are handed down to youth meanwhile empowering and educating them. Leading down to implement environmental sustainability programs, which is a vital element primarily in Tanzania as, climate change and environmental degradation ravages the 53 million Tanzanian population across the fabrics of society. That being the case, youths are knowledgeable and creative, major environmental issues ought to be taken down by them. As they comprise more than 30 percent of the population, being at the forefront of environmental conservation is their sole right. Environmental conservation commands a broad playing field which consists of a mutual process incorporating the natural environment and human beings, who are taking a pivotal role in conserving the natural and built environment. Further down the line, there are efforts and related activities intending to maintain and sustain attributes within the natural and urban environment, vital to human physical and mental life extending to the fulfillment of life. From 1960’s environmental issues have been taken seriously by governments worldwide after awareness dissemination across the globe, taking the fact that environmental perils do not choose borders into account. There are three approaches that propel the environmental conservation. Voluntary Environmental Agreement is one of the approaches which industrial states are incorporated within. Voluntary agreements provide a platform for companies to be recognized for moving beyond the minimum regulatory standards supporting best practices this approach has been active since 1998. We have an ecosystem approach to resources management and environmental protection; this covers complex interrelationships of an entire ecosystem rather than having a response effect on issues and challenges posed. Decision making within this approach would be on a collaborative basis on planning and decision making engulfing stakeholders across governmental departments, industry representatives, environmental groups, and community. All these, catapult better information dissemination, conflict resolution, and conservation processes. International Environmental Agreement is the third approach that considers that vast earth resources are vulnerable due to human influence across various countries. Hence attempts are made by numerous countries globally to develop agreements to prevent damage and manage the impact on natural resources triggered by human activity. The agreement covers oceans, climate, rivers and air pollution. Kyoto Protocol (1997) is one of the well-known international agreements. It is imperative for youths to be an integral part in executing conservation approaches above. Tanzania is widely known to have some of the greatest biodiversity of any African country. Almost 40 percent of the land has been established into a network of protected areas, including Serengeti national park. Tanzania natural environment concerns include damage to ecosystems and loss of habitat resulting from population growth, agriculture expansion, pollution and timber industry activities. Roots of environmental conservation can be drawn from the German occupation of East Africa (1884-1919) colonial conservation laws for the protection of game and forests were enacted, leading to Serengeti officially being established as the first national park in Africa in 1948. More forces began taking lead to manage environmental consequences at the national level, primarily the establishment of National Environmental Management Council and Environmental Act. All the above achievements can only be sustained with the ingenious help of the youth population. Tanzanian youths now face complex environmental perils that are rampant and manifested into different forms; poaching has been a scar on Tanzania’s wildlife conservation. Young professionals within technological, ecosystem, environmental and criminology disciplines ought to take in extinguishing this shameful act, by researching deeply and innovating state of the art methods to encounter poaching. Not only that, 67 percent of urban dwellers and 91.7 percent of rural people do not have proper sanitation conditions according to available data. It is youths who have more time to live, plenty of energy to work tirelessly to eliminate these ills. In many cases youths have not been at the forefront of strategic planning, climate change affects more villagers due to their dependence on nature for daily survival, youth being lead innovators and 21st generation change makers are useful forces in the conservation of freshwater sources, marine life and providing water access solutions. However, youths also contribute to littering and environmental pollution, as electronic and chemical waste being a challenge in management, youth ideas, and strategies to combat this is timely vital. Youths now more than ever demand many natural resources for wealth creation, production, and consumption. They ought to control effectively resources and innovating solutions which will cater more jobs especially to the jobless group shrinking dependence on nature for survival (charcoal baking, improper fishing and mining being the case) and prolong conservation activities. Youth should take lead in advocating for reformation of environmental and youth policies, conducting environmental research and sustainability mechanism adoption in every sphere of production. Youth have a technological advantage compared to their predecessors; they ought to utilize it considerably to make Tanzania a live-able place.