The formerly sacked employees on permanent and temporary terms will be paid all their accrued salaries since their dismissal and they will continue with their jobs to their retirement age. The minister of State in the President’s Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance, George Mkuchika said in parliament that the decision to reinstate the officers does not involve employees who had presented fake academic certificates in their employment documents. The new decision will also exclude public servants who were on employment before May 20, 2004 but presented wrong information in their personal records and Open Performance Review and Appraisal System (OPRAS). Minister Mkuchika said employees who cheated to have form four certificates but failed to provide documentary evidence as provided for in the public service system will not benefit from the amnesty. He further said that all servants employed after May 20, 2004 but had not passed their form four examinations will not be considered as they obtained employment contrary to the government’s directive. The move to reinstate workers who were deleted from the government payroll came after a heated debate in the ongoing parliamentary budget session, with MPs demanding that all workers without form four certificates be reinstated. According to Mr Mkuchika, the government equally considered a request from the Trade Union Congress of Tanzania (TUCTA). The minister said, in the exercise to axe public servants in the payroll, 7,382 public servants were affected. Mr Mkuchika said the government will institute appropriate disciplinary actions against all Chief Executives, Heads of Departments of Public Service and Management who were involved in recruiting people who did not possess valid form four certificates after May 20, 2004. “All Chief Executives who are supervising this exercise to reinstate public servants and who in one way or another try to sabotage this exercise by destroying workers documents to prevent justice to be done will face the music, including legal actions,’’ said the minister. Explaining how the government came into decision to reinstate the sacked workers, Mr Mkuchika said the Establishment Circular No 1, 2004, stated that all public servants who were on employment terms before May 20, 2004 were not obliged to have form four education qualification to secure jobs in the public service. And, a letter from the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Public Service dated April 10, 2006, provided several conditions for employment in the public service, among them possession of form four certificates. Mr Mkuchika added that a letter from the PS, Regional Administration and Local Government, dated July 13, 2005, recognised 3,940 qualified and unqualified Village Executive Officers (VEOs), including standard seven leavers for employment on temporary terms before May 20, 2004.