Personally, I have been in marriage for 37 years and I have four children. I got married after completing my undergraduate training in medicine, and worked in upcountry hospitals in rural Tanzania following which I pursued a one year postgraduate training in public health. By the time I got married, I was mature enough to decide what I wanted in marriage life. As a young man growing up in a rural village on the slopes of Mountain Kilimanjaro, I never witnessed any divorce taking place in my village. For the years that I stayed at home, I also never saw my parents quarrelling or fighting. But my father was not the kind of person who you would tamper with. He was always serious and never laughed with us at any moment. People say if you laugh with your children you will spoil them. My father did not laugh at me at any moment. If you recall one of the articles I started sharing with you, I described how I was handled after I had gone to primary school on the first day of my academic life. I told you that my father, who was at our banana farm, asked me what I was taught at school on the first day. I told you I responded that we were taught that a cow had eight legs. Although I was confident that I knew the answer, my father did not spare me on that occasion. He blasted me with his broken English and said, “Bloody Pau…, Packron”, meaning pack home. Of course at that time I couldn’t differentiate four from eight in Kiswahili. And I couldn’t apologize to my father and tell him that I was sorry. Recently, I read a book on the 4th Secret of One Minute Manager. I was delighted to learn that the fourth secret is to “APOLOGIZE” with Honesty and Integrity. This brings me to the first and the most important tip on how to sustain a healthy marriage. And this is to advise you to practice to apologize with honesty and integrity, even when you’re ashamed. Many people, especially men, don’t like to apologize even when they are caught red-handed doing something that is awful or something that hurts their partner. Here is where most men fail and make marriages get broken. As men we think we are always right but if you think you’ll notice you are wrong and for that reason we fail to apologize. The second tip is that many couples fail to make their top priorities in marriage are: number one; having children, number two; and work number three. The third tip is that we should often say thank you for the small things that your partner has done for you or the family. The fourth tip is that you should stop the thing you are doing and welcome your partner returns home. Often we tend to take this for granted and ignore this aspect of receiving your partner. Help him/her with one of the items she is carrying, even if she isn’t asking for help. One day, a certain gentleman returned home carrying a bag and his father in-law asked his wife to rush to him and receive the bag that the husband was carrying. The wife replied that there was no need because he was already home. Inside the bag, the gentleman had a total amount of US $8,000 but the wife didn’t listen to her father who had sensed that the bag had lots of dough. The gentleman just smiled and he pretended that nothing had happened. The fifth tip is that you should banish the word divorce. If you had agreed to get married at the altar and before an audience comprising hundreds of people witnessing you both willingly saying “I DO”, then you should never think of the word “divorce” in your vocabulary. The sixth tip is that you should “Be Friends” and make a commitment with a strong desire or passion for your marriage to last till you are separated naturally, through death. The seventh tip to remember is that you both agreed to leave your parents and go to start your team. If you are both capable of making children, you are united to stand on your two or four legs if you agree to team-up. Your parents aren’t part of the team anymore. They are outsiders from the day you said, “I DO” and therefore you should refrain from leaning on them to solve your day-to-day hassles. Always fight fairly and agree to disagree on just a few issues. The eighth tip is that each of you should watch out on your words. Always before you utter any words try to ask yourself how those words are going to make you continue being close friends because at night you will all be sleeping on the same bed anyway. The ninth tip is that you should try to maintain your appearance. Most couples forget that looking pretty, handsome or cute needs a lot of work by maintaining cleanliness of your house, and environment. Your shape matters most to your partner. Watch out what you eat or drink. Avoid heavy drinking and smoking because how you smell to your partner keeps him or her closer or far away if you indulge to the extremes in these two behaviors. The tenth tip is respecting meal times. Some people like to do chatting on their smart phones while other members are eating Meal times are precious times for your team. If you are a young couple you should watch out how the children are eating. Help the one who is choosy to eat everything that is served on the plate to make sure he/ she has eaten a balanced diet. If your child Can sort out bones from the fish that is served on the plate please assist one while your partner assists the other child. The eleventh tip is to make sure you serve the meals early so that you can help the children to go to bed early. The children need at least eight to nine hours of sleep before they wake up to go to school. The twelfth tip is you should make time for both emotional and sexual intimacy at least twice a week. Weekends are good but these can be arranged more intimately if you get time alone without having the children’s interference. Once you have fed your children and taken them to bed you can comfortably lock the door and make sure you have your privacy. Over the weekend you can sort out issues and plan the activities for the forthcoming weeks. In summary I have shared the tips to sustain a healthy marriage with you because I believe it takes two to tangle. Always remember you don’t want to change your partner instead you want to solidify your team. Learn to apologize to your lover and forgive each other. Try your best to move forward with your life and keep your issues in-house don’t expose them to the public. They can ’t help you to resolve your day to day grievances. ● Prepared by: Gernard Msamanga, MD ScD, Professor of Community Health, Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (MUHAS), P.O. Box 65015, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. E-mail: g,msamanga748@ gmail.com, Phone: (+255) 754 29197