The system is another partnership between TANAPA and Exim Bank Tanzania and will run parallel with the current system of payment by Exim Cards and Exim PoS at the gates. “What this means is that they will be able to book and pay for park fees and print entry passes. This will reduce the tourist waiting time at the gates significantly, improve the efficiency of TANAPA and allow more tour operators to do business with Exim Bank,” the Bank’s Market ing and Communications Head, Mr Stanley Kafu said. Mr Kafu said that the new e-commerce portal also means convenient and secure payments, which are done anytime, and anywhere, real time confirmations with receipts updated at TANAPA, hassle free experience at the gates and complete operational control. “In line with our mantra, ‘Exim Bank at work, today for tomorrow’, we are dedicated and relentlessly pursuing innovative ways to be the bank of choice,” he explained. After completing trainings with key tour operators, the parks that accept online payments are Serengeti National Park, Lake Manyara National Park, Tarangire National Park, Kilimanjaro National Parks (Marangu, Machame, Mweka, and Londorosi), Arusha National Park and Mikumi National Park. This follows another first by Exim Bank when it introduced TANAPA Debit and Prepaid cards in both USD and TZS to allow electronic entry fee payments at the gates over 10 years ago using Point of Sales (PoS) machines. This has simplified the collection and reconciliation process as well as improved revenue collections since 2007. Currently, the Bank is authorised to electronically collect gate fees for all 16 national parks in the country. The online collection system will elevate the benefits to even higher standards. The bank, which was recognised as Tanzania’s Best Overall Local Employer in 2017, is celebrating 20 years of success, growth and pioneering into new markets across the continent. Exim Bank (Tanzania) Limited was established in 1997 and expanded its market by opening subsidiaries in Comoros (2007), Djibouti (2010) and Uganda (2016).