According to the President, there were plans on the table to modernise the commercial city, including the construction of the second phase of Dar es Salaam rapid transit infrastructure from Kariakoo to Mbagala in Temeke District, which is scheduled to kick off later this year. Dr Magufuli expressed the government’s commitment yesterday in Dar es Salaam during the function to inaugurate the 240-megawatt Kinyerezi II Power Station. “By shifting the country’s capital to Dodoma, it does not mean that we have abandoned our plans to modernise Dar es Salaam. The intention of the government that I am leading to make Dar es Salaam a modern commercial city is still there,” he insisted. He reminded the public of the ongoing construction of Tazara flyover, Ubungo interchange and the expansion of Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) at the tune of over 560bn/-. “As you might have heard, yesterday, we received another new passenger plane to boost ATCL fleet. The construction of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro is going on and recently we laid a foundation stone for Morogoro- Dodoma SGR project,” he added. The Head of State also reminded the public of the ongoing major upgrading of Dar es Salaam Port, a measure that has triggered influx of ships and the construction of a dry port at Ruvu area in Coast Region for the major objective of decongesting the city, as evidence to show government efforts to modernise the city. President Magufuli said the government received a loan from the World Bank (WB) amounting to 660bn/- for the construction of road network reaching 210 kilometres in Dar es Salaam, modern markets, state-of-the-art bus stand, water ways and drainage systems reaching 40 kilometres. Speaking on the construction of drainage systems in the city, Dr Magufuli said it was his plan to make the plight caused by floods in the valley history by constructing a modern water way . According to the President, all the projects were planned to be completed by 2020. On education, the Head of State said every month the government has been allocating 1bn/- to finance free basic education in Dar es Salaam. He said in 2017/18 financial year, the region has so far received 7.27bn/-, adding that since the programme started, Dar es Salaam has received a 25.84bn/-. According to President Magufuli, 3.5bn/- has been allocated for Dar es Salaam Region in this financial year for