The funded project is an extension to Kidahwe - Uvinza Road which was funded in 2009 by ADFD with a concessionary loan worth 57 million US dollars. The ADFD Director General, Mohammed Saif Al Suwaidi, and Permanent Secretary to the President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government, Mussa Ibrahim Iyombe signed the loan agreement at the ADFD headquarters in Abu Dhabi on Monday. The signing ceremony was also attended by his Excellency Mubarak Nasser Mubarak, Ambassador of Tanzania to the UAE and Khalifa Abdullah Al Qubaisi, Deputy Director General of the Abu Dhabi Fund for Development, along with several other officials from both sides. The Uvinza-Ilunde-Malagarasi Road upgrade project is aimed at enhancing the socio-economic status of rural populations, especially in the Kigoma Region. The project seeks to improve the transportation network between former capital Dar es Salaam and the lake port town of Kigoma. It is set to boost domestic connectivity between villages and cities, as well as international connectivity with neighbouring countries, such as Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The project supports the government's strategic objective to become East Africa’s industrial and logistics hub. The Director General of ADFD Mohammed Saif Al Suwaidi said, the agreement reflected ADFD's priority to support development projects across vital economic sectors in developing countries, especially the roads and transport sector. The Uvinza-Ilunde-Malagarasi road upgrade is an important venture that aligns with Tanzania's efforts to become a semiindustrial country and improve the living standards of its citizens. “We are confident that the project will translate into a positive socio-economic impact, and enable the Tanzanian government and people to fulfill their development aspirations," he said. The Permanent Secretary in the President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr Mussa Iyombe expressed appreciation for ADFD's significant role in financing strategic projects that contribute to the economic and social development of Tanzania. He said the government is eager to enhance collaboration with the UAE and ADFD, particularly in infrastructure and other sectors given their crucial role in promoting sustainable development. He added that the Fund's financial support for infrastructure projects, especially in the transport and water sectors, enables the government to overcome the development challenges they face. In addition, ADFD is providing consultancy services for the detailed design and supervision of the works that include the construction of small crossing bridges, culverts and service ducts