According to an official statement issued by the Tanzania Information Services (Maelezo) in Arusha Region here yesterday, the inauguration is one of the highlights of a four day tour of Manyara and Arusha regions. Meanwhile, our reporter Bernard Lugongo writes from Dar es Salaam that The Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) which was tasked to build the 25 kilometre wall has given an assurance that the construction work was undertaken within the sixmonth timeframe, with great efficiency. The TPDF’s spokesperson, Colonel Ramadhani Dogoli, invited members of the public to attend the historic function related to a facility for protecting the rare gemstone with which the country is endowed. Late last February, the Chief of Defence Forces, General Venance Salvatory Mabeyo, inspected construction works for the Great Mirerani Wall for protecting local tanzanite gemstone mining quarries and expressed satisfaction over the pace and standard of the project. “We would like the Commander- in-Chief of Tanzanian Armed Forces, President John Magufuli to inaugurate the wall, which manifests one of the country’s efforts to safeguard resources and build the economy,” he had stated. The CDF had led a delegation of heads of security organs to visit the Mirerani Hills in Simanjiro District but especially the wall which has been completed two months ahead of schedule. Meandering at nearly 25 kilometres long, the ‘Great Mirerani Wall’ is probably the longest fort ever built in the country, if not in the entire EastAfrican Region, with the works being undertaken by the army through the National Service (JKT) wing. The Commanding Officer in-charge of the construction, Lieutenant Charles Mbuge, said the wall project started in November last year and was scheduled to be completed on the 30th of April 2018 but so far, the work was done, seventy days ahead of schedule. “Originally, the works were scheduled to take six months, from the 1st of November 2017 to the 30th of April 2018, but the wall will be completed before the 15th of February 2015,” said the Commanding Officer, adding that the project would cost 5.65 billion/- upon completion, and so far, the government has remitted 5.02 billion/-. The Commanding Officer pointed out that they would soon install surveillance cameras and other electronic monitoring devices, pointing out that, despite being 25 kilometres long, there was only one gate to serve both as entry and exit points. President had ordered the construction of the wall to protect all mining activities at the Mirerani Hills, as part of efforts to curb notorious gemstone thefts and smuggling at the Mineral Extraction Zone. The Head of State issued the order in September 2017 while inaugurating the KIA-Mirerani Road, instructing the Chief of Defence Forces, General Venance Mabeyo, to mobilise the TPDF to secure the precious gemstones’ mining area, to curb theft, smuggling as well as alien infiltration in the quarries. In sync with the wall construction, the authorities have started issuing Identity Cards for people who work in the mines and so far, 6000 miners have been given the vital documents , while mining operators are in the process of providing their workers with permanent employment contracts. Notorious smuggling of tanzanite gemstones is what prompted the government to erect a wall surrounding the mineral extracting zone in Mirerani. Recent reports indicate that tanzanite gemstones worth nearly 700 billion/- are smuggled out of the country annually through illegal means, with the lot ending up in the neighbouring Kenya and to as far as India and South Africa. While Kenya handles tanzanite Minerals valued at 100m US Dollars annually and India documents blue gemstones worth 300m US dollars, it is surprising that Tanzania, the source of the blue gemstones, records 38m US Dollars worth of tanzanite business per annum. In another development, HAZLA OMAR reports that President John Magufuli will also inaugurate the first Tourism and Diplomatic Police Station in Arusha, a facility which will henceforth handle all issues related to foreign tourists and expatriates living, working and visiting the country. The new centre will also serve as a special security hub to deal with matters of concern regarding tourists’ encounters, threats and other problems when the visitors are sampling attractions within the Northern Zone circuit. The Northern Zone receives nearly 90 per cent of all foreign visitors touring the country annually. “Previously, matters concerning tourists’ security, loss of baggage through theft, loss of passports and street attacks used to be taken care under a special desk which was operating under the Regional Police Commander’s office at the Central Police Station,” said the Regional Police Commander, Mr Charles Mkumbo. He said they chose to establish a specialised police station which would handle all issues related to tourists, diplomatic envoys, foreign expatriates and other visitors.