What bring them to the country, whose football level continues to go down annually, is obvious the financial power of the clubs and sponsorship boost they (clubs) receive. Already apart from the title sponsor, Vodacom Tanzania, the league and teams enjoy good packages from others firms. It is quite opposite to non-soccer sports as recently evidenced in basketball and volleyball, the once popular sports that today seem to fade from limelight. Basketball is struggling to regain its glorious past since the withdrawal of Tanzania Breweries Limited as the title sponsor of the regional league; Kili RBA. The sport has lost its power and the big players too. Uganda has taken over to become the most favourite destination for the Tanzanian player. The number of the Tanzanians playing professional basketball for Ugandan teams is reported to increase and all of them reported to perform well there. The players who are hitting headlines in Uganda basketball circuit are Mwalimu Heri and Sudi Ulanga who play for KIU Titans while Fadhiri Chuma features for UCU Canons. Others also reportedly doing fine are former stars of the Dar es Salaam Regional Basketball League(RBA) such as Abadalla Ramadhani ‘Dulla’, Mohamed Yusuph, Jacobu Marenga and Sylvian Yunzu. One of the Tanzanian players, Ally Saimoni, who plays for UCU Canons, admits the Ugandan basketball league is among the best and toughest in East Africa and the success owes much to the big sponsorship and investment as well. The players normally play three league matches a day something they see as not normal, but in return it keeps them fit and well drilled. It is said the Tanzanian players have been very valuable to their team because they are highly skilled. KIU Titans star, Ulanga said he has improved his skill very much since starting professional stint in Uganda. Prior to moving to Uganda, Ulanga played for Vijana City Bulls, one of the biggest clubs in Dar es Salaam. Adding, Mwalimu Heri said the Ugandan basketball league has showed him many things he didn’t previously know. As most of Tanzanian based in Uganda claimed there is a bright future for them there and hopefully it is from there their bid to play in American Basketball League-NBA, will start. Most of them as Heri, who was among the players who helped Mbeya Region clinch the National Basketball Championship, claim without good sponsorship, basketball won’t go anywhere in Tanzania. In volleyball, the exodus has involved only two countries; Rwanda and Kenya. David Neeke is on brink of signing a special contact with the Mombasa-based Prisons Volleyball Club as he still thinks of playing outside the continent. Neeke who is second local player to play professional volleyball outside the country, said all is well for him to sign another contact. The Tanzanian said he had to shift to Kenya because he was happy to play in the country whose league helps him sharpen his professionalism. He said that they are discussing some contact details before signing as he still hunting for a better contract outside Africa. He wants to sign the new contact, but with agreement that they will allow him to move abroad once he gets a better team abroad. Neeke added he was working hard to improve his game and try his luck to the countries where volleyball is highly developed. Neeke who played for Jeshi Stars, said he decided to move to Kenya because they are more develop in the game compared to Tanzania. Most of the foreign-based Tanzanias, however, believe they have many talented players but they are yet to find their way out. Neeke is the second Tanzanian player to play professional volleyball outside the country after his former team-mate Jackson Mmary who is now serving his second year contact with Rwanda Energy Group (REG) Volleyball Club. Lack of sponsorship has affected many sports besides basketball and volleyball, but the worst affected, are netball, boxing, handball, badminton and field hockey which were once the greatest sports at national and regional levels