Through M & A Attorneys, Brue Pearl Hotel and Apartments Limited, the plaintiff, seeks orders for such compensation for loss of business, reputation and damages to the tune of 3.2bn/-, 1.5bn/- damages for wrongful eviction and 1.7bn/- being refund for assets unlawfully withheld in the defendant’s premises. The plaintiff further pushes for 89m/- payments being amount unnecessary paid to employees. They are also requesting the court to declare that the eviction effected by the defendant without recourse to any court of law is unlawful. In addition, the plaintiff represented by advocate Henry Massaba seeks for orders directing the defendant to release all items belonging to them and third parties seized and locked up by defendant. Judge Rehema Sameji has been assigned to determine the suit, which comes for mention on May 21. On October 19, 2006, the plaintiff affiliated with Dodoma Rock Hotel Limited and defendant entered into a lease agreement for the purpose of operating a hotel and apartments and the building located at former UFI Plot along Morogoro Road in Dar es Salaam. According to the plaint of the suit, it was a term of the lease agreement that the defendant shall correct, remedy, rectify and put right any faults, defects and shortcomings of the demised premises that are deemed of capital expenditure. During the time of signing the agreement, the parties noted various defects including leakages on the top floor rendering forty rooms unoccupied for which the defendant undertook and promised to make good within two months from the date of signing the contract. The plaintiff alleges that the two months promised passed and no repair was ever done. Furthermore, it is alleged in the suit that for a period of seven years the defendant did not rectify the defects though the plaintiff continued to pay the rent for the full premises. “Numerous times, the plaintiff communicated both in writing and verbally urging the defendant to make good of the said defects. However, the defendant ignored or failed to remedy them as per agreement,” reads part of the plaint. Thereafter, the plaintiff referred the matter to arbitration where it was determined in their favour. However, the defendant successfully pursued a review of the award to the High Court with an order to conduct a fresh arbitration of which the plaintiff has appealed to the Court of Appeal. After the decision of the High Court, on September 21, 2014, through their agent Majembe Auction Mart, the defendant evicted the plaintiff unlawfully and without following any laid down procedure on pretext of rent arrears. The way the eviction was carried out leaves a lot to be desired. The plaintiff challenged that the said unlawful eviction in the High Court’s Land Division, which overturned the orders and restored the plaintiff back in the tenancy one month later. After such restoration, the plaintiff faced daunting tasks of reviving the business as the act of unlawful eviction caused huge damage to the reputation and reliability of the hotel, following un-ceremonial removal of guests and cancellation of prior bookings. The plaint of the suit indicates further that another eviction was carried out by the defendant on November 9, 2017, without any court order or notice to evict the plaintiff from the leased premises, causing loss, damages and inconveniences. Following that exercise, all plaintiff’s furniture, files, equipment and perishable goods which was being prepared for the guests were locked inside. The guests were forced out of their rooms, causing loss from the demand of refund for the payment which they had already made. “The acts of the defendant not only were unlawful but also caused loss to the business reputation and trust. All bookings made both for the hotel rooms and conferences were cancelled. Furthermore, the plaintiff was forced to refund the advance payments made for the said bookings,” the plaint states. It is alleged also that the defendant abrupt and unlawful action forced the plaintiff to premature laying off 85 employees and causing the plaintiff to pay out more than it should have if the procedure for eviction had been followed