AHK has been operating in East Africa but from Kenya, since 2012. Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) yesterday hosted a 15-member delegation that comprised German government officials, business community representatives, parliamentarians and AHK officials. The visit to TIC aimed at sharing information on the investment environment and opportunities in the country prior to the office launch. “ The most important thing is that Germans are very good in high tech, it’s our hope that their coming will get us more investors from Germany in the industrial sector, supporting uswith high technology transfer to our industries,” TIC Executive Director Geoffrey Mwambe expressed his expectations as he spoke to reporters in Dar es Salaam. During the meeting, Mr Mwambe invited the German investors into the industrial sector, mostly in establishment of assembling plants. He said the decision to open AHK office in the country proves that Tanzania’s strides to improve investment environment and trade are positive. Among others, the government has fought against bureaucracy, corruption and maintained political stability and peace. He assured that investing procedures in the country were now handled under the one-stop centre at TIC, adding that German investors do not have to bother as they will get all services from the responsible public authorities under one roof. Mr Mwambe was clarifying on sentiments from some members of the delegation who decried the long time taken to acquire visa from the immigration department in the country. He hyped huge investment opportunities in agriculture and industrial sector that remain untapped as well as potential market within the country and East African region, thanks to the country’s strategic geographical position, bordering seven countries. AHK Country Director in Tanzania, Dr Jennifer Schwarz, said they will be working to link the Tanzanian investors to their German counterparts and vice versa. “We will be giving helpful information to investors to facilitate investment and trade cooperation between the two countries,” she said. Head of delegation, Dr Martin Wansleben, said establishment of AHK’s branch in the country is also to strengthen collaboration between the companies from both countries.