It is a feat that has eluded communities in other parts of the world, ranging from those for whom the aspiration to unite didn’t go beyond theoretical propositions, to those whose experiments at mergers were short-lived. In typically Tanzanian fashion, the commemoration held at national level in Dodoma was fantastic, highlights of which included colourful shows. On the symbolic front, the elevation, by President John Magufuli, of Dodoma from a municipality to a city, was most delightful. Delightful because, being the country’s designated capital city, and more-so after the President had personally injected much steam into conferring recognition to Dodoma in deed, beyond mere words, it would have been anomalous if its status hadn’t been upgraded in due course. It would have been anomalous if it had continued to be subordinated for a longer time by cities that, save for the longreigning Dar es Salaam which is at least the commercial metropolis, are its junior. A cloud of anxiety had however hung over Union Day commemorations due to processions that never materialised. Given human nature, anxiety centred on events that could disrupt the ebb and flow of life was understandable. The planners were obviously frustrated that their evil designs never materialised, for which the reason is simple. Most Tanzanians are a peace-loving people who would not place themselves in harm’s way over non-existent causes. The planners’ timing was obviously anchored on sabotaging the high-profile April 26 event, focused on embarrassing the government. Sheer logic tells people of sound mind, of which Tanzania is endowed with many, that individuals and groups that are opposed to the government are hell-bent on discrediting and embarrassing it. The Fifth Phase government is consistently winning praise internally and externally for superb, fast-tracked strides in various sectors. Those who had projected themselves as engineers of the people’s social and economic salvation are worried stiff by the overwhelming pro-government stance. Panic-stricken, they resort to desperate, but irrationallycrafted diversionary-disruptive schemes. They can’t succeed, for the overwhelmingly people-supported government is fully alert to tame troublemakers!