Speaking to journalists here yesterday, the firm’s Managing Director, Mr Faud Abri said the award among other things, would motivate journalists to write more about the sector and as a result, the public and investors will understand the opportunities therein. “As key stakeholders in the sector, we have found it appealing to recognize and honour the contributions of journalists in creating awareness on opportunities available in the sector which is crucial in employment creation,” he said. Mr Abri whose company is among the partners of the Southern Agriculture Growth Corridor of Tanzania (SAGCOT), which deals with improving the value chain, said that unlike some sectors, which are seasonal, dairy sector has no specific season. “Given the fact that this sector is not seasonal, it is crucial in creating permanent employment, therefore we need to create awareness so that more investors will develop interest,” he said. Mr Abri said dairy sector has potential in improving the health of the people, adding that only few Tanzanians are consuming enough milk and other dairy products therefore, it was crucial to introduce the award to boost awareness. “ I am optimistic that when the award starts, more will be written about the sector. Opportunities will be exposed to people and increase understanding of the sector which creates a lot of jobs,” he said. He pointed out that the sector still lagged behind in terms of promotion when compared to other sectors, therefore, award will help to stimulate and positioning it as one of promising sectors of economy. “ The sector has the vast value chain, also needs a lot of products from farmers and factories to run. It is important that people get to know all these opportunities and benefit from them,” he said. In another development, Mr Abri said he was discouraged by the tendency of government institutions of using imported powder milk instead of local dairy products that are of better quality. “ Why should we be using imported powder milk while we have quality liquid milk produced in the country?,” he said adding that, President John Magufuli's commitment to prioritize locally produced goods and emphasizing industrial economy was commendable. During the 11th meeting of the Tanzania National Business Council (TNBC) held in Dar es Salaam last month and chaired by President Magufuli, Mr Abri said despite Tanzania being ranked second in the African Continent with the biggest number of livestock after Ethiopia, the potential of the sector is underutilized.