The TMEA Country Director, John Ulanga and CCTTFA Executive Secretary Dieudonne Dukundane signed the agreement for the grant, which will cover a three-year period, in Dar es Salaam last Friday. The financing will specifically improve monitoring of the Central Corridor performance under the Central Corridor Transport Observatory (CCTO) in order to support evidence-based advocacy and decision making to remove trade barriers. The TMEA Country Director said TradeMark East Africa was delighted to support CCTTFA because the organisation was producing reliable and timely data on the performance of the Central Corridor Transport Network. “This support will further strengthen that work and enable the countries served by the corridor to design interventions to further improve performance of the corridor,” said Mr Ulanga. The CCTTFA Executive Secretary, Mr Dukundane said the agency funding would support on-going efforts to boost efficiency of the transport corridor and attract more trade for the benefit of the countries served by the corridor. CCTO would be upgraded into a one-stop centre platform for availing and accessing relevant information and data related to movement of goods along the corridor, he said. According to him, the financing will specifically help CCTTFA maintain and improve the current online information portals, develop mobile data collection tools and roll out the central corridor dashboard to other member states. It would also support CCTTFA to develop trade costs, transport predictive models, and develop tools to monitor processes and effectiveness of initiatives along the Central Corridor. “CCTTFA highly appreciates this funding support from TMEA for our Central Corridor Observatory work,” he said. “The funding will go a long way to support our on-going efforts and enable us to work with various stakeholders in the central corridor partner states to further improve efficiency of the corridor and hence increase the volume of trade going through the corridor for the benefits of the countries.”