Even the so-called developed world led by self-appointed United States and the United Kingdom have consumed virtually everything and now depend on Third World resources for much of their development efforts. We’re, however, grateful that they’re also very busy telling us not to repeat their past failures. One of these areas include wildlife. Having decimated their own bison and other rare animal populations, our ‘developed’ friends are now helping us conserve our own. It’s in this recognition that the European Union is helping us develop the first ‘Geopark’ in East Africa, apparently where the First Man on Planet Earth walked – if geology’s evolution were to beat theology’s Biblical Creation. All that apart, Tanzania remains quite rich in its earthly endowments. It’s like all the animals came to this beautiful country at creation. But like all lucky people, we happen to be quite ‘unlucky’ in the sense that we need other people how to conserve our own riches. Now the EU has just awarded us the status of first ‘Geopark’ in East Africa, describing it as a “major milestone for the country and the entire Sub-Saharan Region.” While obviously something we should all smile about, it imposes a heavy burden on us; we’re duty-bound to preserve that rich enclave for the rest of the world; for the Ngorongoro is, indeed, a richly deserved world heritage. We need not hazard the fact that the Olduvai Gorge is the largest ‘on-site’ museum in East Africa, but we should also salute the illustrious efforts of this country’s development partners in making all that possible. In the words of Ambassador Charlie Stuart, the EU Deputy Chief of Mission: “ … this award is a fabulous testimony of those within the authorities, supported by funding from the European Union to assist with the extensive application process, who strived to make this happen. ” Yes, it’s indeed happening; so all of us in Tanzania should express our gratitude by fighting all forms of wildlife abuse. Fittingly, this year’s World Heritage Day was held at the Olduvai Gorge, and UNESCO has just endorsed the Ngorongoro-Lengai Geo-Park which covers many geological sites including the active Mount Lengai , Lake Natron, Olduvai Gorge, Nasera Rock and part of Monduli district landscapes. Long Live Mankind, Long Live Ngorongoro.