Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Prof Elisante ole Gabriel made the call in Dar es Salaam yesterday, where he said the move will help in finding lasting solutions to problems emerging in the market. “I call upon industrialists and businesspeople in the country to present their proposals and views at the ministry on how to improve the implementation of market support laws in the country,” he said, expressing the government’s commitment to work on the suggestions. In a speech read on his behalf by the Deputy Director of Investment in the Ministry, Mr Aristides Mbwani, Prof Gabriel said that the proposals to be presented at the ministry will help in reviewing and improving the marketing policy framework, putting up better policies to improve the law. On the other hand, the PS directed the state marketing authorities, including regional and district marketing officers to create a better way of cooperating with industrialists and businesspeople in the implementation of the state’s law governing the country’s market towards reaching an industrial economy. He urged Fair Competition Commission (FCC), Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) and Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) to work closely with the manufacturers and businesspeople. Prof Gabriel was officiating at a workshop organised by FCC to its stakeholders and state authorities to discuss and deliberate on how best to implement policies and laws of marketing in the country towards business growth and industrial economy development. He said government manufacturers and traders in the country play a vital role in the development of an industrial economy, and that the government is committed to ensure they cooperate to ensure long-term investment in trade and industrial economy development. On the other hand, Prof Gabriel asked FCC and other state marketing authorities to oversee the execution of the economy by ensuring continuous education to manufacturers and traders in the country. Speaking during the event, the Executive Director of FCC, Dr John Mduma said that the Commission (FCC) was committed to conduct more education and awareness to its stakeholders, including industrialists and traders. Meanwhile, FCC yesterday launched a special free mobile number (0800110094) for receiving information, complaints and proposals from traders and consumers concerning challenges they encounter in the market.