Speaking with journalists at the Regional Commissioner’s Office here, various officials praised the project for its vast merit on recouping the environment and improving wellbeing of communities in ten villages. Tabora Regional Commissioner (RC) Aggrey Mwanri said that the project has impeded the environment from destruction due to climate adaptation strategies introduced hence improving community economical endeavours. He said the introduced resilience technologies against climate change in the district enhanced the know how knowledge to communities hence contributed to improve the environment and livelihood of communities in Igunga and Mbutu wards. He mentioned the technologies shared by the project to communities in 10 villages of Igunga and Mbutu wards as biogas plant, fuel efficient stoves, water filter, drip irrigation, rain water harvesting, chicken brooder and ox-drawn scooper. Tabora District Commissioner (DC) Queen Mlozi said that despite the dryness of the land, establishment of tree planting in farms and at communal areas has made Igunga to be greenish hence improve agricultural activities and livestock production. “The project has improved livelihood of my people, I wish it be extended to all wards and villages in the entire district and the whole region so as to benefit more people,” said Igunga District Commissioner John Mwaipopo. Igunga District Council Executive Director Revocatus Kuuli commented that the project is a vibrant heritage to his people, hence called upon all villages, wards, schools and the entire community to make thorough use of the technologies. Joseph Mafuru, Natural Resources Management Project officer, revealed that the project aims to increase resilience technologies through knowledge sharing and learning to all communities who are strongly affected by the adverse effects of climate change in 10 villages. Mercy Nyanda, Heifer International Tanzania Communication Officer, briefed that the project is funded by the European Union and implemented by Heifer International Tanzania in collaboration with Heifer Netherlands, Igunga District Council, Aqual for All and ICIPE. She added that Igunga Ecovillage project is implemented in Igunga and Mbutu wards covering 10 villages of Mbutu, Mwang’halanga, Bukama, Mwabakima, Ibutamisuzi, Igunga, Makomero, Mgongolo, Mwanzugi and Isungilo. The Project Officer, Water expert, Goodluck Estomih said the project has introduced lowcost rain water harvesting technologies through ponds, roof, road, drilling shallow wells, 3R’s technologies (recharge, retain and re-use) of water for kitchen, garden and bio-fertility to improve access to water to all communities.