The distinction lies in the perceptions of the two broad groups on the very fundamental issue of the collective welfare of our country. The majority passionately love it, for which they would voluntarily sacrifice their very precious lives, in the event of, say, a war in defence of threatened territorial sovereignty. The minority are a strange species that gleefully supports machinations for disrupting peace and harmony in a country of their birth. The sentiments that Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa expressed in Dar es Salaam at the weekend were among the latest in a series that, given the importance of peace as a much-treasured jewel, is bound to be ceaselessly ongoing. Addressing clerics ahead of the National Congress of the National Muslim Council of Tanzania, Bakwata, Mr Majaliwa started off by saluting the umbrella organ of one of the country’s as well as world’s leading and highly respected religions, for its consistent initiatives to promote peace and harmonious co-existence amongst community members. He urged them to be front liners in championing maintenance of peace and curbing its disruption, urging them to guard mosques and spiritual tutorial centres for the young faithful – madrasas – against being manipulated by ill-intentioned worshippers to foment trouble. The premier’s call was actually a reinforcement of calls to the revered spiritual leaders who are enjoined to be role models, not to relax their guard but reinforce it on that front instead. It is a call-cum-reminder that routinely rings very loudly in sentiments voiced by high-profile political and spiritual leaders during major events related to Christianity, which like Islam, cherishes peace, and its related attributes – love and harmony. It is heartening that much premium is being attached to the critical jewel that peace is. For its opposites, including chaos, disharmony and ill-will, bode ill for the country and the broader community, right up to what is characterised as a global village, to which Tanzania belongs. Minus peace, everything else that has a crucial bearing on our social welfare, economic advancement and political tranquility, would be deeply compromised. Yet peace disruption is what some wananchi, propelled by political powerglory- seeking elements are orchestrating. Fortunately, however, the solid, fifth phase government led by President John Magufuli, backed by a peace-desiring majority, is ever watchful to neutralise their evil machinations.