Deputy Minister of Works, Transport and Communications, Atashasta Nditiye, said in Parliament that the government announced the tender on March 3, 2018 in a bid to have a successful bidder who will conduct a feasibility study and detailed design as well as Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). Mr Nditiye was responding to a question posed by Kigoma Urban legislator Zitto Kabwe (ACT-WAZALENDO) who demanded to receive the customs progress report from the government on ensuring that CIF Kigoma was kicking off. In his question asked on his behalf by Moshi Rural MP, Anthony Komu (CHADEMA), Mr Kabwe charged that on July 26, 2017 works ministers from Uganda, Burundi, DR Congo and Tanzania convened in Ujiji Municipality, Kigoma Region, and reached into a conclusion that beginning January 2018, the Kigoma port becomes the final destination for cargo from Burundi and Eastern DRC (Kigoma Port of Destination CIF Kigoma). “Notwithstanding the resolution by ministers, all projects of the Kibirizi and Ujiji ports were supposed to be accomplished to boost other projects like Ujiji City-Grant Lakes Trade and Logistics Centre,’’ said Mr Zitto in his main question. Responding, the Deputy Minister said the government understands the importance of the Kigoma Port for the best interest of the region, country and neighbouring countries. “Because of that, the government through TPA during the 2017/2018 fiscal year allocated funds for the construction of the small ports of Ujiji and Kibirizi so that upon completion, they can enable other projects including that of the Ujiji City-Great Lakes Trade and Logistics Centre,’’ he said. According to Mr Nditiye the government decided to re-advertise the tender after the earlier tender to get the contractor flopped as nobody expressed interest. He added that what was currently going on was to assess all bidders that have expressed interests to get the best and that the work would begin soon immediately after getting the best contractor. Kigoma is one of the busiest ports on north eastern Lake Tanganyika. The government announced a plan to create an economic zone at the port to stimulate trade and to ensure stable economic growth of the Port.