It is not our intention to repeat here what has been reported in this newspaper about the new radars and the airplane. We want to point out the fact that so many big things are happening in this country but, unfortunately, and, either by design or default, they escape the attention of many of us as we keep on being occupied with trivial matters. The four radars are to be installed at Julius Nyerere International Airport in Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro International Airport, Mwanza International Airport and Songwe Airport in Mbeya will open a new chapter of airspace surveillance in the country and help the nation save 1.2bn/- annually which were paid to neighbouring Kenya as charges for provision of surveillance services on its uncovered airspace. Currently, Tanzania has only one radar with capacity of covering 25 per cent of the airspace, giving neighbouring Kenya opportunity to monitor the remaining uncovered aerospace under the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) arrangement. Therefore, were are not only saving a big amount of money for other important undertakings, but, we, as a nation, are going to further strengthen security in the country and attract more investors in the aviation sector. With the new radars, the revival of the national carrier, ATCL is gathering pace with the coming of the third aircraft while we wait for three more that will help the airline compete with rivals in and out of the country and regain its lost glory. However, it is important to note that the revival of the airline will not end with regaining lost glory. It will extend to getting a share in the lucrative business in the regional aviation industry which is currently benefitting our neighbours. With the ATCL revival boosted by the coming of the third aircraft, Tanzania is going ahead with construction of a standard gauge railway to link the landlocked neighbouring countries with the Dar es Salaam port. The nation is also preparing for construction of the East African Crude Oil pipeline project with Uganda’s government. All these are being funded by our own domestic resources, which means from the revenue collected from Tanzanians and non-Tanzanians operating in the country. These new developments that tell so many things but one important and beautiful thing stands out: major things are unfolding in Tanzania by Tanzanians and for Tanzanians and the future looks very bright. We have every reasons to cheer up and support the government through hard working and paying our tax