Those male and female wazee constitute a small segment of community members, over which younger compatriots should feel embarrassed, within the loose guilt by association context, for not doing enough to ease. A recent story sourced from Moshi in Kilimanjaro Region, is the latest in a series that, barring a miracle (though we wish a miracle occurred) sheds some light on the subject-matter. It may not prick the conscience of some, who may dismiss it off-hand as one of those familiar stories, and which ultra-insensitive cynics may wonder why we are being so worked up about it. In keeping with our mission of tolling the bell– as it were–on issues that deserve serious interventions, we will continue doing so. The reverse could push it to the back burner, and that would not only be sad but extremely embarrassing. Some economically handicapped wazee in Moshi Municipal Council are in a precarious situation due to having their poor health addressed half-way. The first, relatively delightful half is that they are sheltered and fed at the Njoro camp, and are examined, as well as availed prescriptions for medications free of charge at some medical facilities. The second, miserable, and indeed potentially disastrous half, is that, they are supposed to buy medicines from private outlets, but lack the financial means to do so. That plight was laid bare recently by an official of the camp, Ms Josephine Kessy. She was speaking at a function at which the centre received donations of various items from Meckson English Medium School in Arusha City. That is a gesture of compassion for which the school community deserves praise, for basics like bed sheets, soap, tooth paste and body lotion to facilitate comfort. The praise extends to other similarly compassionate benefactors, some of whom chipped in with items like television sets that cheer up the wazee and relieve boredom. Stable health, however, is arguably humankind’s most critical requirement. From a street beggar to a billionaire, nerves are wrecked when one’s health is messed up. What all this boils down to is that the free health for elderly people scheme is yet to tick for real. It’s a challenge that must be addressed earnestly.