The Deputy Minister in the ministry, Mr Japhet Asunga told the National Assembly here yesterday that the decision is designed to ensure a win-win situation between the victim and the government. “We have more than 828m/- of unpaid bills. The government is currently auditing the demands before it starts paying off all the bonafide victims of human-wildlife conflict,” he said. Mr Asunga was responding to a question by Monduli MP Julius Laizer (Chadema) who wanted to know the timeframe before the government starts compensating wananchi whose crops were destroyed by wildlife between 2010 and 2017. He said wildlife had repeatedly been destroying crops in Mswakini, Makuyuni, Naiti, Mbuyuni, Likisale and other parts in the district but the victims were yet to be compensated. Mr Asunga acknowledged dangerous and large wildlife animals were in almost 80 districts in the country. He said such destruction that also results to death and injury is largely caused by elephants, crocodiles, hyena, lions, hippo and buffalo. “Such destruction is a result of increased wildlife population as well as human and human activities on areas within or near protected areas, including national parks and game reserves,” he said. Apparently, in majority areas, such turnaround is a result of increasing climate change which push wildlife to move from one area to the other. The Deputy Minister told parliamentarians that the existing regulations of 2011, have been compelling the government to release little rate of compensation, including those related to death and injury. In Monduli district alone, some 251 people have been paid a sum of 48m since 2010 through April 2018. The government went on to explain that other than reviewing the regulations, it is also seeking to streamline public education over effects that are likely to come with the existence of wildlife in their areas. Mr Asunga however, advised the community to start demarcating such areas with ropes painted with pepper as well as setting bee beans which will help address challenges caused by elephant movements especially on their crops