It was a hard-fought victory, especially in the return leg at Hawassa International Stadium last Wednesday, where, for several times, the Tanzanian envoys survived scares from hard fighting Ethiopians. Regardless, it was a relief to Yanga fans and Tanzanians as a whole, as the team will now be playing in the higher class tournament that draws big attention at both continental and global levels. We commend Yanga players, coaches and management for the feat, which in actual sense promotes the country. While we salute Yanga for the achievement, however, we would like to caution the club, players and coaches, that they have to make preparations for the coming stage more spiritedly, ahead of encountering tougher and well drilled teams. From what we have seen in their previous encounters against St Luis of Seychelles, Township Rollers of Botswana and the Ethiopians, Yanga need serious reinforcement, especially at the midfield and the frontline. It has been clearly noted that the absence of players, who previously guided the team to success, is a big blow as it disrupted the whole team’s winning machinery. Yanga are yet to find an effective replacement for Simon Msuva who joined a Moroccan club and the injury-haunted Donald Ngoma and Amis Tambwe upfront as well as Haruna Niyonzima, who crossed over to rivals Simba. However, with a 600m/-package from CAF, Yanga can get power to pick three players, who can enforce the team in the yawning departments. The group stage will certainly be no joke, but this doesn’t mean that Yanga are already losers. They are capable of carting away good results if they are really determined. With the group of players they have, Yanga have shown that they can handle big games. Yanga have to fight and give it their best shot and their hope of winning will largely depend on players’ spirit and commitment on the pitch. Equally significant, is support from fans, who, within the patriotic context, are enjoined to temporarily push club fanaticism aside. Driven by the spirit of Tanzanian-ness, let’s all support Yanga to win.