BBW is a bacterial disease that causes yellowing and wilting of the leaves, uneven and premature ripening of the fruits and eventually the plants rot and die. It is caused by the bacterium Xanthomonas campestris and affects all types of bananas. “We have been called by government to bring tissue culture banana plants to boost harvest and earnings to smallholder’s farmers in the village. We thank OFAB, under Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology for their efforts in ensuring farmers in Kagera Region benefit from tissue culture banana using modern technology to increase food production and incomes,” said Generosa Silvester, a farmer from Rutunguru village and ward in Kyerwa District, Kagera Region. Open Forum on Agriculture Biotechnology (OFAB) in collaboration with Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH) established demonstration plots of banana plants using tissue culture technology for groups of farmers, with the aim of creating awareness and understanding on the importance of using improved varieties to increase production. Tissue culture is seen as an important technology for developing countries in the production of disease-free, high quality planting material and rapid production. Ms Silvester, whose farm has been used as a demo plot of tissue culture banana said that many farmers using local seedlings will have to uproot their plant stems because they are prone to BXW. She told reporters who visited the demo plot established by OFAB in collaboration with COSTECH and Ministry of Agriculture that the diseases have affected over half of banana plants in the region, the situation has caused panic among farmers and residents who depend on banana as their main staple and cash crop. Eight districts in Kagera Region have confirmed to have been hit by the destructive Banana Xanthomonas Wilt (BXW), also known as Banana Bacterial Wilt (BBW) disease. Banana is a staple food crop for approximately 20 percent of the population in Tanzania and is available throughout the year. Almost what is produced is consumed locally, and it is also a source of steady incomes to most of the smallholder farmers. There are many economic and cultural values attached to this crop. Available data indicate that Kagera Region has annual yield of about 650,000 tons of banana, the economic backbone of Kagera residents. Each year banana stems were uprooted and destroyed through burning in an effort to combat BXW. “As banana farmers, we faced devastating pests and diseases that affected our crops. The alternative option is disease-free plantlets developed through tissue culture,” said a farmer at Rutunguru village in Kyerwa District, Mr Mussa Issa, who lost two acres of bananas last year. According to Mr Mossi Kasenyenye, a farmer from Bunanzi Village, Kazambia ward, Missenyi District the disease destroyed over two acres, forcing him to destroy the diseased plants to protect the rest, leading to low production and shortage of food. “We thanked OFAB for bringing tissue culture banana plants that will increase our harvest and food production. Chairman of Maendeleo farmers group, Teognesi Michael at Omuronasi village, Mshababa ward in Muleba District says, planting quality seedlings would help increase income and food production to smallholder’s farmers in Kagera. Another farmer, Filibert Philipo, lamented that the disease destroyed his one acre, which was his only source of livelihood. Rutunguru ward extension officer Mr Julius Karasira says farmers are very interested in this banana improved varieties that are resistant to Banana Bacterial Wilt. Amon Rugeiyamu, an extension officer from Missenyi District office said that the new project of banana improved varieties using tissue culture technology will bring hope to banana farmers in the district. As 90 percent of Kagera residents depend on banana as food and cash crop. “The main purpose is to produce healthy plantlets free of viral diseases, hence resulting in higher yield. The technology is used for mass production of planting materials, production of virus-free plants, plant breeding purposes, conservation and multiplication of crops and livestock and has been tested by researchers at Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) and Maruku Research Institute in Kagera Region. “I opted for tissue culture bananas instead of the traditional variety due to their high and practical benefits in terms of yields, disease resistance and their ability to survive any kind of varying climatic conditions,” said Elius Simon, who is working on tissue culture banana established by OFAB in collaboration with COSTECH at Rutunguru village and ward in Kyerwa District. Agricultural officer from Kagera regional office, Mr Louis Baraka said that, unlike the conventional bananas, TC bananas have a shorter maturity period, their seedlings are available in bulk as per demand, and attract higher market prices due to their quality and weight. “Traditional bananas attain maturity from between 15 to 24 months after planting. TC bananas mature at 12 months. Their seedlings are largely available as they can be grown in nurseries to await planting. With the traditional ones, on the other hand, one has to acquire an emergent sucker from an already grown plant, which is highly prone to diseases as infections can spread during the transfer to different soil, said Mr Baraka. During the visit by journalists and agricultural officers to over 9 village in Kyerwa, Karagwe, Missenyi, Muleba and Biharamulo districts to view tissue culture banana plants demo plots established by OFAB and COSTECH. Farmers called on district municipal councils to either fund tissue culture technology or give a go ahead to genetic engineering. To save farmers from local varieties that do not resist disease and drought. Sekunda Peter, farmer at Omuronasi village in Muleba District says, for the government to transfer banana tissue culture technology to small-scale farmers, they would overcome the challenges that resulted in the deterioration of the agriculture sector throughout last year as well as boost productivity and production. Kyerwa District Commissioner (DC), Colonel (retired) Shaaban Lissu instructed extension officers in the district to ensure farmers stick to commercial cultivation of banana using plant tissue culture technique. “In efforts to increase and boost farmers income we as district council encouraged our farmers to use modern techniques for producing banana by using tissue culture as their seedlings are improved and tolerant to banana diseases. We thanked Open Forum on Agricultural Biotechnology in collaboration with Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology for their efforts in ensuring Kyerwa farmers adopted this modern technology since banana crop is the main food and cash crop in Kagera Region,” DC Lissu said. According to scientists the production of tissue bananas was good because a single tissue banana bunch weighed 45kgs. One kilogramme of banana was going for between Sh10 and Sh15. Tissue culture (TC) is the cultivation of plant cells, tissues, or organs on specially formulated nutrient media. Under the right conditions, an entire plant can be regenerated from a single cell. Plant tissue culture is a technique that has been around for more than 30 year