The five Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) are UK-based Rights and Accountability in Development (RAID), MiningWatch from Canada, London Mining Network, UK-based CORE Coalition and Dar es Salaam-based Legal and Human Rights Centre (LHRC). They have addressed their letter to the board chairman and members who meet for their annual meeting tomorrow in London. But, reaching for comment yesterday, Acacia’s Managing Director for Tanzania, Mr Asa Mwaipopo declined knowledge of the communication to the board. “Let me find out if others in the office have seen it if it is indeed an open letter,” Mr Mwaipopo told the ‘Daily News’ over the phone. The statement that RAID Executive Director Anneke Van Woudenberg sent to the Daily News’ yesterday, urged the board of directors of London Stock Exchange listed mining firm to intervene in improving the company’s human rights record at its North Mara Gold Mine. The five groups charged that Acacia’s new community grievance mechanism to address long standing human rights and other complaints at North Mara Mine falls short of the firm’s human rights obligations. “There has never been a more crucial time for Acacia’s board, including Barrick Gold executives, to ensure Acacia meets its human rights obligations,” said Ms Woudenberg. She said there have been numerous reports about serious human rights violations, including killings, beatings and sexual assault at the mine over the past several years. In March 2017, after considerable pressure to publish further information, Acacia confirmed that there had been 32 ‘trespasser-related’ fatalities over a two-year period between 2014 and 2016. However, the company failed to publish information about injuries. A 2016 parliamentary inquiry into complaints at the mine received reports of 65 killings and 270 injuries by the police and mine security. In September 2017, following a visit to the North Mara Mine by a delegation of eminent international legal judges and experts, the International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) said it was “deeply concerned about the gravity of the allegations and difficulties the victims experienced in accessing any adequate remedy and reparation. ” Following earlier criticism by RAID and others, Acacia sought to revamp its flawed community grievance mechanism, which provides a process for victims to bring human rights and other complaints to mine officials for investigation, compensation and remedy. Acacia’s original mechanism appeared primarily aimed at limiting the company’s legal liability. In a confidential process, victims were pressed to sign settlements they did not understand in the absence of a lawyer, waiving their rights to court option. Acacia’s own statistics, published in 2017, showed that 93 per cent of victims’ claims were rejected with no explanation provided. The company’s revised mechanism, posted for consultation to Acacia’s website in December 2017, falls well short of what is required, the rights groups say. In their letter, the groups says, “The revised mechanism is still not compliant with the company’s human rights obligations, including the effectiveness criteria for operational-level grievance mechanisms set out under the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. “It lacks human rights benchmarks, transparency and independence, providing limited legal assistance for an overly legalistic process and creates confusion about whether it will accept complaints about police abuse at the mine site, among other problems. ” LHRC official Felista Mauya challenged Acacia Mining and Barrick Gold to take on board the views of Tanzanian and international legal experts and ensure North Mara community grievance mechanism is independent, fair and transparent. “Tanzanians deserve to have their rights respected by multinational companies operating in the country,” she added.