DC Mshama made the announcement shortly after finishing a meeting with District Extension officers in Mlandizi Division, this week, which aimed at discussing challenges facing the officers in implementing their official duties on daily basis. “During his visit at Metal industry owned by Mohamed Kiluwa at Disunyara village, the president gave the order for that land which was once owned by the investor, who had failed to develop it to be released to the public,” she said. She went on to explain that already processes to implement the exercise are completed and that the area has been surveyed to establish its actual size. “The land has already been surveyed and we have established that there are a total of 2,000 acres. The district authorities intend to release a total of 1,000 acres to the youth for agricultural activities,” she explained. Mr Elman Kadigi who is District Agriculture Officer pointed out that their meeting had targeted to discuss various issues in agricultural sector, including the present challenges and finding ways to solve them as well as assisting individuals in the district practice modern farming. Meanwhile, communities in Kibiti District, Coast Region have been urged to work in unity to ensure that the exercise of providing immunisation against Cervical Cancer which is caused by Human Papiloma Virus (HPV) for girls aged 14 years in the district succeeds. The call was made by District Commissioner (DC), Mr Gulamhussein Kifu, during the launching of the exercise in the district this week. “We need to respond positively to this exercise which is very important for the future of our children, our families and the nation as well,” he said. Kibiti District Medical Officer, Dr Frank Omollo, took time to remind the residents that there are no side effects from this immunisation and emphasised that all targeted girls must receive it. He added that a total of 1,161 were intended to be immunised through health centres, religious institutions and schools in the district