As most of us know, the fifthphase government has urged each region to at least build 100 industries, and there is nothing it can achieve, if the country does not have enough number of trained scientists to be employed in these facilities. I recently attended a meeting in Dar es Salaam, where two groups, Shell Tanzania and Karimjee Jivanjee Foundation pledged to continue supporting education for young scientists in Tanzania. What a wonderful pledge! Words uttered by Shell Tanzania External Relations Manager that day Ms Patricia Mhondo really impressed me, as she insisted that there is a need to provide opportunities to local youth to enable them conduct research and experience the power of science in addressing socio-economic problems facing the country. Her statement made me think for a while then said to myself - “What if we would gate more companies and organisations giving such promises? Wouldn’t the number of scientists tripling every year, and the country start getting more professionals in science?Let’s understand what is this Young Scientists Tanzania, and why was it established in the first place? This is a unique and innovative programme, which delivers two integrated and complimentary events in the Tanzanian secondary school academic year. The first is a comprehensive Science Outreach Plan, covering all regions in Tanzania and the second is an attractive high profile Annual YST Exhibition and competition in which secondary students showcase their research. Some of you who know the organisation may remember, the Annual YST Exhibition component is based on the Young Scientist model in Ireland. In Tanzania the Annual YST Exhibition is used to showcase the success of the of the students involved in the Science Outreach Programme. The Science Outreach Programme is an indigenous independent programme developed by YST to add value to the YST Exhibition and in doing so, develops a much-needed Science Culture in Tanzania. The Science Outreach Programme is the key component of YST as it builds much needed scientific capacity among young secondary level students and their teachers. A research has shown that the Science Outreach Programme augments the Tanzania National five-year development plan as published by the Ministry Of Finance And Planning and the African Union, Continental Education Strategy Plan. YST encourages practical training, and also rewards innovation and innovators, as well as introducing science research at an early stage of education. YST also creates attractive extra-curricular activities such as science parks and clubs and it also facilitates the implementation of incubator projects and mentorship programs, as well as employ informal and non-formal means of disseminating scientific knowledge and culture. YST also puts contextualized scientific knowledge in curricula and it also promotes indigenous scientific knowledge and culture. It is under this background that YST has invited secondary school students and teachers to participate in this year’s exhibitions expected to take place in August this year. The exhibition is expected to involve 200 students who shall show off their technological innovations. YST Co-Founder, Dr Gozibert Kamugisha has encouraged all interested students countrywide to send their project proposals before the deadline on the 21st of April and I hope they shall do so on time to demonstrate their competence in science. Selected schools and students are expected to receive outreach and monitoring support from YST to develop their project ideas where the winner will be rewarded with cash, medals, trophies and library refurbishment for their schools. We were informed that the participants of this year’s exhibitions are currently working on projects in various areas of science such as chemical, physical and mathematical as well as biological and social science, so we look forward to see what they shall demonstrate. It is encouraging to note that majority of the projects are geared towards finding practical solutions to various challenges in health, agriculture and food security, communications and transportation safety, energy, education, environment and climate change. The exhibitions and schools outreach programme are facilitated by the continuous support of main sponsors, Shell Exploration and Production Tanzania Limited and Karimjee Jivanjee Foundation (KJF) and the duo deserve credit for this commendable job. When I heard the director from KJF, Mr Yusuph Karimjee saying that they have been supporting the exhibitions since its establishment in 2012, I then said to myself – what mode could be used to attract more sponsors in this great move? It is encouraging to note that this year they have announced to be the main sponsors for five years and will continue to provide university scholarships to the winners. The aim is to provide sustainability to the programme and give great opportunity to local youths to innovate and conduct scientific research on relevant issues for socio- economic development. Such are the positive initiatives which more Tanzanians should emulate in making sure that this country gets enough local scientists to be employed as doctors, chemists, geologists, pilots, nurses, or teachers. Long live Shell Tanzania and Karimjee Jivanjee.