The Tanzania Media Women’s Association (TAMWA) Executive Director, Mama Edda Sanga made the call while delivering a statement from a network of stakeholders from civil society organisations pioneering for the amendment of the law and policy related to road safety, in Dar es Salaam, yesterday. According to Mama Sanga, as much as the Road Traffic Act tried to deal with various challenges on road safety, but a study conducted has shown that there are areas that require improvement to match on with the current situation. “The law should be able to solve the puzzle behind road traffic accidents as well as their impacts and effectively deal with existing challenges,” said Mama Sanga. She identified the areas they have recommended for improvement including high speed, use of seat belts, use of helmets, alcohol consumption and child restraints. Mama Sanga pointed out that speeding has been identified as a main causative of road accidents but the law has only restricted high speed in residential areas and other areas will be regulated with respective signs. “We recommend that the law should recognise all areas and not only in the towns or residential areas but also schools, houses of worship, play grounds and national parks,” she cited. She further revealed that while it is against the law for the driver and passenger seating in the front seat not to fasten the seat belt but silent for those seating in the back seats. The ED cited a study conducted by World Health Organisation (WHO) which observed that a seat belt can reduce the impact of an accident by 50 per cent for those sitting in the front and 70 per cent for the ones at the back. For this, they recommend that the law should be amended and require all passengers riding in a vehicle to fasten their seat belts. Regarding the issue of alcohol consumption while driving, she said the law regards it as an offence if a person is traced with alcohol content of above 0.08 per cent in the blood. According to her, WHO recommends that an experienced driver should not exceed 0.05 per cent while one not so experienced not above 0.02 per cent. It is also their plea that the law looks to it that the areas are looked upon. “We call upon the government and lawmakers to collaborate with stakeholders to raise awareness especially on the increase of road accidents and the penalties related to offences,” she said. The Secretary General of the Tanzania Federation of Disabled People’s Organisations (SHIVYAWATA), Mr Felician Mkude said it is estimated that out of over three million people with disabilities in the country, one million people have obtained their disabilities through road crashes. “The increasing number of people with disabilities caused by accidents is not pleasing because the country is facing a big challenge to accommodate their needs… the price of an artificial leg is estimated at 6m/-,” said Mr Mkude. He pointed out with a more improved law in the country; It will help in the reduction of accidents. The President gave the directive against the backdrop of the latest road accident which killed 12 people and injured 46 people in Igunga District, Tabora Region, recently. He directed the police force, regional and district security and defence committees, as well as other responsible organs, to take appropriate actions to curb the menace.