Mr Masiyiwa, a renowned businessman, entrepreneur, philanthropist, has been invited to the 5th Tanzania Israel Business and Investment Forum (TIBIF) to be held barely a week after another forum involving investors from France was held in the city to explore business and investment opportunities in Tanzania. The Zimbabwe business leader, who is the Founder and Executive Chairman of Econet, a diversified global telecommunications group with operations and investments in over 15 countries, will share the podium as a key speaker with Tanzania business leaders including Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Chairman, Dr Reginald Mengi and Mohamed Dewji, according to TPSF Executive Director, Godfrey Simbeye. TPSF has partnered with the Kingdom Leadership Network Tanzania (KLNT) to organise the forum along side Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) and the government through ministries of the Foreign Affairs and East Africa Cooperation and Industries, Trade and Investments. The forum would bring together approximately 200 prominent business owners, entrepreneurs, government officers and private sector CEOs from Tanzania and Israel. There would also be representation from about 300 SMEs and large businesses. The Israel delegation will be led by the Minister for Justice Ayelet Shaked. About 50 companies have confirmed to attend the forum, said Mr Simbeye adding that should be a never miss forum for local entrepreneurs as it would involve B2B meetings to provide an opportunity for businesses to interact and create trade synergies with Israel business leaders and entrepreneurs. Mr Simbeye there has been increasing interest for Tanzania from investors an indication of growing confidence of business and investment climate in Tanzania. "Investors from every corner are coming in Tanzania. One should ask why now. They must have seen something different in Tanzania," Mr Simbeye told reporters in Tanzania According to him about 500 Tanzania business owners and entrepreneurs have so far registered to attend what is expected to be one of the biggest forum involving foreign investors in Tanzania. The CEO and founder of KLNT, Isaac Mpatwa said the forum was aimed at fostering stronger commercial ties between Tanzania and Israel by exploring areas of business and investment cooperation, tapping the potential economic benefits and linkages for businesses and projects in the two countries. The organisers are seeking to leverage on Israel industrial capabilities to promote Tanzania industrialization drive, he said. Another KLNT member, Edmond Lyatuu said the forum would focus on four sectors namely agriculture, manufacturing, energy and minerals and IT. At least 50 companies from Israel have confirmed to attend, he said adding preparations for the forum were on final stages.