This was revealed by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa at the weekend. According to the prime minister, the Fifth Phase Government will continue creating a friendly environment to increase food storage capacity from the current 251,000 tonnes to 700,000 tonnes by the year 2025. This is wonderful news, to say the least. The State is also keen on construction of food processing industries that will add value to crops that are destined for export. Already, the country has opened its borders ready for surplus food exports and will continue searching for good markets. The situation also calls for better crop storage facilities which include silos and grain warehouses. Nevertheless, food exports must be handled with extreme care in a quest to avoid causing critical shortages at home. It will be recalled that when food shortages hit the Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan, Kenya, Somalia and Ethiopia the situation prompted Tanzanian traders to clandestinely shunt local supplies to those countries due to the attractive prices on offer. Consequently, food shortages started to appear in some regions on Tanzania Mainland, a situation that, naturally, saw prices escalating. However, the government blamed the situation on greedy traders who were hoarding grains to create artificial shortages. Last year the government announced that the nation had harvested 16.2 million tonnes of grains against a requirement of 13.2 million tonnes. So, the nation had a surplus of 1.5 million tonnes of grains. The harvest of cereals stood at 9.5 million tonnes against a domestic consumption of 8.4 million tonnes. But, food prices skyrocketed in various regions pushed the government to distribute about 1.5 metric tonnes of food items across the country. In the same vein, the state condemned greedy businesspeople, politicians and some media houses for colluding to create artificial food shortages. The traders, the State said, were propagating stories of fake food shortages so they can be allowed to import food. Indeed, some of these traders paid a price for their folly when proven guilty in courts of law. They were attempting to frustrate the nation. Whatever the case, the State took all necessary precautions to ward off any spectre of hunger. The kink in this food scenario is that while farmers in the Southern Highlands complain that the surplus food stockpiled, food in their homes is spoiling for lack of markets, a residents in Manyara, Shinyanga, Mara, Arusha and Tabora struggle with pangs of hunger. Now, this is a laughable scenario.