The government allegedly owes the Indian hospitals in respect to medical bills for Tanzanian patients who were referred for specialised treatments. Similar financial analysis also applies to the 61bn/- debt, which the government owes the Medical Stores Department (MSD) in storage and transportation of medicines and medical supplies under the Global Fund financing. Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Minister Ummy Mwalimu gave the government position here yesterday while responding to issues raised by the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) audit report for the 2016/2017 financial year. “I have asked the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry to form a team of specialist doctors to assess the debts. They will look on the tests, consultation, transport, accommodation, drugs and food costs,” she explained. The latest financial audit by CAG Musa Assad had raised a red flag, revealing that the debt soared by 17.1bn/- from 28.6bn/- to 45.7bn/- in a span of just six months. “The debt has been accumulating over the years, but our concern is whether the claimed costs were genuinely used for the intended treatment and not other issues like cosmetic surgery or IVF (In Vitro Fertilisation), which are not our priority,” explained the minister. Prof Assad, in his report, also advised the government to improve local capacity for specialised treatment, the advice Ms Mwalimu said the state has started working on. She pointed out that 95 per cent of heart surgeries are now conducted at the Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI), while Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) and Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) have started kidney transplant. “The remaining five per cent of cancer are toddlers below the age of one year who require specialised care out of the country,” she explained. The minister stated that the government has earmarked 14.5bn/- during the financial year to procure equipment known as pet scan, which is used to trace exact location of cancer cells in the body. According to the Minister, when President John Magufuli came to power at the end of 2015, the total bill for treatments abroad was 554bn/-, but the amount decreased to 357bn/- and 163bn/- in 2016 and 2017, respectively. Speaking at the same press conference, the Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, said Higher Education Students’ Loan Board (HESLB) has unearthed 147,213 outstanding defaulters from just 18 which were previously on record. Regarding loan repayment, she said the board had collected 132bn/- as of March, this year, against the 130bn/- target, expressing confidence that the amount will surge even more by the end of this fiscal year on June 30, 2018. Only 28bn/- used to be collected previously, but collections rose to 162bn/- in 2017 as HESLB intensified crackdown on defaulters. The percentage has increased from 28 per cent of mature loans in 2014 to the current 51 per cent.