And, this coming at the height of the country’s Ujamaa (Socialism and Self-Reliance), it soon became the hallmark of failure of the policy itself among our vocal critics. Over the years, we’ve struggled with a fledgling airline, overstaffed yet barely performing. Indeed, failure was another name for ATC, as the country’s skies were overtaken by nascent Uganda Airlines. This week begins a period of transformation for the national carrier, thanks in no small measure, to efforts by none other than the Head of State John Pombe Magufuli, who has undertaken the onerous task of revival aimed at bringing Air Tanzania Corporation Limited (ATCL) back to life. Defying open criticism and barbs hurled by those who choose to ‘see nothing good’ coming from government efforts at anything, JPM (as he’s fondly referred by good and bad press alike) went ahead and ordered brand-new Bombardier Dash 8 Q400 aircraft from Canada, paying cash from, in his words, “our own funding sources.” And, where did the cash come from, the critics are said to have wondered out aloud. “We snatched it from those who stole it from us, in the first place,” JPM retorts. Now they, too, know. This country is very rich, indeed, but we’re rich in idle cheats living side by side with faithful civil servants within our midst. Not just do they see ‘nothing good’ coming from the sitting government, but they also ‘hear nothing’ genuine coming out from the mouth of a visibly honest leader; we dare say JPM’s word is ‘visible’ because he follows it up with deed. Particularly so in this thing about Bombardier acquisitions, as we await the arrival of three more yet to be delivered. Word is now out: the aviation industry within the six-nation East African Community (EAC) is set to get busier than hitherto as this country sets about an ambitious investment aimed at boosting its fleet of its national, ATCL. Nothing could have come at a better moment; the resolve to ‘populate’ our skyline with our own aircraft is a welcome move both in terms of the economy, but also in terms of the country’s airspace security; for we’re told that we had ‘entrusted’ it to our neighbours; not that we don’t trust, but managing that trust lies squarely on our own shoulders, or should at least be seen to be our ‘own baby’ as the saying goes. For now, we give kudos to ATCL – and pay league to JPM.