“Four years ago we received 40m/- to support two student field excursions, one in Dar es Salaam, Morogoro Dodoma, Singida, Nzega and Kahama, and another one in 2015/2016 in Ruvu – Kwendikwazu - Pare-Usambara mountains – Minjingu - Ngorongoro - Oldupai Gorge - Oldoinyo Le Ngai and Oldonyo Sambu,” he said. Dr Kazimoto said his college had also received 61m/- from Shell which was spent on the purchase of 15 teaching microscopes, 99 Geology Books (and Petroleum Geology), and 15 Global Positioning Systems equipment for geological mapping courses. He added that some Shell members of staff have also participated in the preparation of both Bachelor of Science Petroleum geology and Master of Science Petroleum Geology syllabi. The 15 student first bunch Bachelor of Science Petroleum Geology were enrolled in 2013/2014, and the 12 first bunch of Masters of Science Petroleum Geology were enrolled in 2014/2015. Presenting a paper to a team of Shell which was led by Company’s External Relations Manager, Ms Patricia Mhondo, senior Lecturer at the college Professor Evelyine Mbede said they have also received 243m/- from Shell to support 15 Masters of Science Petroleum Geology students. Professor Mbede who is a Petroleum Geologist added that 12 students of the first batch of Masters of Science in Petroleum Geology in 2014 – 2016 were sponsored by Shell and all have already graduated. “You have also sponsored three more students in 2015 – 2017, and all of them are about to graduate, leave alone 10 students that you sponsored to the Young Scientist Tanzania (YST) workshop,” she said. She mentioned measures considered to enhance teaching and learning as renovation of old laboratory infrastructure, and need to develop a new Petroleum Geochemistry lab, and also help student and research teams in trend with the envisage in the reviewed Masters of Science programmes. She mentioned measures considered to enhance teaching and learning as Postgraduate Training Sponsorships/ scholarships to students who wish to pursue postgraduate programmes, and funds and data to support postgraduate research. Speaking after the visit, Ms Mhando said Shell was privileged to support such programmes, which help to train local young Tanzanians in Oil and Gas Sector.