Justices Mbarouk Mbarouk, Rehema Mkuye and Jacobs Mwambegele ruled in favour of the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Defence, Chief of Defence Forces (CDF) and Attorney General (AG), after holding that the appeal by Nyambu, was time barred. They noted the certificate of delay accompanying the appeal was invalid to entitle the appellant to rely upon it in order to exclude the time in computing the time which the appeal ought to have been lodged in Court by reckoning it from the date when the application for copies of proceedings was made. “ Given the circumstances, we are of the settled view that the appeal was filed out of time. The appeal which was accompanied with an invalid certificate of delay is incompetent before the Court. Consequently, we strike it out,” the justices declared. Certificate of delay is a document empowering the Registrar of the High Court, when computing the time of 60 days within which the appeal is to be instituted, to exclude the days required for preparation and delivery of copies of proceedings which are necessary for the preparation of the intended appeal. According to the justices, the issue relating to issuance of a certificate of delay is governed by Rule 90 (1) of the Tanzania Court of Appeal Rules. They noted that the certificate of delay in Nyambu’s case was problematic as it did not indicate the time it intended to be excluded. Such legal document, the justices further observed, indicated two dates from when time is to be excluded, that is, June 2, 2015 when the appellant lodged a notice of appeal and June 3, 2015 when he applied for copies of proceedings. “However, the law requires only the date when the appellant applied for copies of proceedings. The inclusion of the date when the notice of appeal was lodged was not proper as it is not a requirement of the law,” they said, adding that even the month of the day when copies were delivered was not shown. The justices also pointed out that what was shown was 23rd of 2015, thus, making it difficult to know the exact period when the appellant was supplied with such proceedings and enable the court establish if the appeal was filed within time or not. In the High Court, the appellant had lodged a petition contending that his basic human rights were violated. He moved the court under several Articles of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania and the Basic Rights and Duties Enforcement Act. The appellant had, therefore, sought for the court to declare unconstitutional the acts of the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Defence, Chief of Defence Forces (CDF) and Attorney General (AG) by denying access to information relating to the reason for termination of his employment with the TPDF . He had also requested the court to declare unconstitutional the acts of the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Defence and the CDF by denying him the right to access justice. Such petition was greeted with some preliminary objections for allegedly contravening the Basic Right and Duties Enforcement Act. On May 6, 2015, a panel of the High Court assigned to hear the petition in question, having considering the submissions given by the parties to address the grounds of objections raised, struck out Nyambu’s petition because he did not first exhaust other remedies before filing the same