The Nile River is the longest river in the world; life-sustaining to the 11 African countries it winds through. Its waters flow with countless stories and complex history. Throughout the ages, the river has served as a source of mythology and religious significance to civilizations from Ancient Egypt to the Bantu tribes of sub-Saharan Africa. But when it comes to pinpointing the source of the Nile, most still do not seem to know. True The Nile River supports large and small-scale economies of the 11 countries it winds through. Water Journalists Africa “When someone says River Nile, each Rwandan, what comes into his mind or her mind is the source of the Nile [in Rwanda],” argues Irene Felix Munyejuru, a fourth year student of water and environmental engineering at the University of Rwanda, in Kigali, Rwanda. The other sources of River Nile are said to be in Lake Victoria, Uganda, or Lake Tana, Ethiopia. This small dispute is emblematic of larger conflicts over the Nile, which are escalating as basin countries vie for water resources in an age of water scarcity and climate change. Demand versus Supply One thing basin residents do seem to agree on is that their An ancient river divided iconic river may not meet the needs of the future generation. “The demand is increasing, and of course the supply of water is fixed,” Munyejuru said. For centuries, River Nile, the longest river in the world, has been a source of pride not only for Rwandans but all citizens of the 11 countries in the Nile basin. It is a source of livelihood for about half a billion people in the region. This 6,695 kilometer–long river (4,160 miles) caters for their water, food and energy needs, among others. As African countries continue to undergo a population boom, experts estimate that the Nile basin population will double by 2050. Most people in the downstream Nile Basin countries of Egypt and Sudan tend to live close to the river, while population in the upstream countries including Ethiopia, Tanzania and DR Congo is based around areas of high rainfall. What will happen if the amount of water needed to sustain this population exceeds what is available? Conflict Water conflicts are not new in the Nile basin. But they are worsening - as climate change and population growth exacerbate water challenges, and new hydropower projects across the basin threaten to redistribute the Nile’s flow. “Where there is no water, there is conflict.” Dr. William Onyango Ogembo, Professor of Hydrology, University of Nairobi in Kenya. “In many countries, [the river] is a source of conflict. [But] it should be able to satisfy our needs and not to stay a conflict maker,” said Umutesi Mameline, a student of water and environmental engineering at the University of Rwanda. “Through cooperation, each country should set decisions by considering other countries’ benefits,” she said. Water and environmental engineering students at University of Rwanda, in Kigali, share memories of the River Nile and their hopes for it 40 years to come. As basin countries’ economies grow in our interconnected global era, recent water disputes in the basin mainly involve cross-boundary uses of the Nile’s water. Written by: Fredrick Mugira (Uganda), Annika McGinnis (Uganda), Safaa Saleh (Egypt), Dagim Terefe (Ethiopia), Ishraga abd Arrhman (Sudan), Jacob Mugini (Tanzania)