EALA Speaker Martin Ngoga told reporters here yesterday that despite the challenges ahead, Tanzania is too big to bow to the difficulties. He was briefing reporters on the commencement of EALA sittings that kick off this week in Dodoma. “EALA will extend all the necessary support to Tanzania’s industrialisation drive and we believe the country may encounter various challenges but the nation and its people are bigger than the challenges,’’ he said. For the first time, EALA chose Tanzania’s capital Dodoma to conduct the sitting, which is the fourth meeting of the first session of the fourth assembly. This is the first time the regional assembly that alternates its meetings in the partner states is sitting in Dodoma. Mr Ngoga said EALA has invited President John Magufuli to address the assembly at the special sitting on a date to be communicated later. He said the assembly is scheduled to deliberate on key issues over the three-week period. Bills and resolutions will be brought before the plenary, with a number of committee undertakings also envisaged, particularly on scrutiny of Bills in preparation for the forthcoming public hearings. He said two crucial bills that are pertinent to the Monetary Union Protocol are expected for tabling. They are the EAC Monetary Institute Bill, 2017 and the EAC Oaths Bill. The EAC Monetary Institute Bill, 2017 aims at providing for establishment of the East African Monetary Institute as the community’s institution responsible for preparatory work for the EAC Monetary Union. In accordance with Article 23 of the Protocol on the EAC Monetary Union, the Bill is expected to provide for the functions, governance and funding for the institute as well as other related matters. “We will also participate in the tree planting exercise as well as the Union Day celebrations on April 26,’’ he said, adding that for logistical reasons, Tanzania’s parliamentary leadership decided EALA lawmakers to meet in Dodoma for the first time and MPs were happy to meet any