Moreover, the Police Force has no enough officers to offer security to political parties rallies, the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Hamad Masauni told the Parliament here yesterday. He made the remarks when answering a supplementary question by Twahir Awesu Mohamed (CUF) who wanted to know the criteria used by the police force to offer security to the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM)public rallies and denying the same to the opposition parties. “I want to know why the Police Force offered the security support to CCM members and supporters in Zanzibar recently while we are told that there are no enough personnel?” he questioned. Adding that “ There is a ban to conduct public political rallies issued but on April 8, this year, CCM organized the meetings and they were offered security by the Police Force, why the double standards.” In the main question, he questioned when will the force start to operate scientifically and made away with the trend of using excessing force in implementing its duties. He went on asking that professionalism is a key item taking into account the changing means and trend of technologies applied by the criminals, thus how preparedness the Police Force is in handling the situation. Responding, Mr Masauni said if demonstration have permit the police force is mandated to offer the security and all other related services to ensure that all is under control. “while the government is now working on economic and social services improvement measures, the police force, cannot divert the trend and instead concentrate on unproductive demonstrations and political parties public meetings” said Mr Masauni. He reminded institutions and other organs planning to stage demonstrations that they should count out the Police Force to offer them security unless they are worth it. Mr Masauni told the Parliament that the police force will apply force as per situation and they are offering them with the needed capacity building to police officers for their improved performance. He said they are employing officers with the needed ICT skills among other professionals to cope with the increasing cybercrimes