The Vice-President made the statement when inspecting the progress of a water project at Kikwajuni Constituency in Urban West Region, Zanzibar during her tour of Unguja Island. The tour, which concluded yesterday, aimed to inspect the ruling party’s as well as citizens-initiated development activities and projects. Ms Samia said the grand water project, which upon completion will serve about 7,500 residents, was achieved thanks to a cordial working relationship between the lawmaker for Kikwajuni, Mr Hamad Masauni and his House of Representative compatriot, Mr Nassor Salum Ali. She, however, noted that it was unfortunate that in some constituencies MPs, (Zanzibar lawmakers in the parliament of Tanzania) and Reps were not seeing each other eye to eye, something that was holding back development in the constituencies. “I’m pleased that MPs and Reps for the two constituencies which I have visited today have good relations and are working together harmoniously in pursuit of the development of their constituents, which is great,” said the VP. “But, we know that in some constituencies the MPs and Representatives are not in good relations and often that is caused by people who trade false accusations and stories between the two; you citizen need to support your representatives and not to stir up conflicts between them,” she added. The Vice-President commended the hard work of the MPs and Reps for Kikwajuni and Jang’ombe constituencies, and expressed optimism that the party’s flag-bearers were on the right track to deliver on the party’s 2015-2020 manifesto. “When we talk about development, some people may think of the development brought solely by the government, but the government has put in place a system involving MPs, Reps and ward councillors, who are supposed to complement its development initiatives,” she noted. She said for the realisation of a speedy and sustainable socio- economic development the participation of the private sector, development partners and citizens’ initiatives could not be overemphasised. The Vice-President urged timely implementation of the project, saying her quest was to see people being supplied with safe and clean water. She implored Kikwajuni constituents to protect and maintain the project by contributing to the running costs. Kikwajuni MP, Mr Hamad Masauni, also the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs, said they were on the verge of finalising the third phase of the Kikwajuni water project, oozing confidence the completion of the project would address longexisting water shortages in the constituency. “When we we’re elected seven years ago, there was acute shortage of water affecting Kikwajuni constituents and we had to find ways to solve the problem, in collaboration with the Representative, private sector, citizens, NGOs and development partners, we initiated this massive project in 2014 and already, some of the areas are receiving reliable safe and clean water following the completion of phase one and two of this project,” he said. The three-phased project is scheduled to be completed next month with the finishing of the ongoing construction of 250,000 litres, 6ft elevated tank, which will ensure adequate supply of water to all Kikwajuni residents, said Mr Masauni. “Once the tank is complete, the next step will be supplying water to the people and we have money for the installation of a new water network as we must replace the existing dilapidated and inefficient network,” the Kikwajuni Representative said. ZAWA Director said the Kikwajuni Water Tank Project, partly funded by UNDP (which has donated 110m/-) and Zanzibar Utilities Regulatory Authority (ZURA), which has contributed 100m/-, was the biggest in Unguja. CCM Deputy General Secretary, Zanzibar, Dr Abdallah Juma Sadalla Mabodi while commending the MP and Rep for Kikwajuni, reminded the people of Zanzibar to always ensure that they elect visionary and creative leaders, who are committed to solving problems facing their constituents