President Kagame was speaking recently at the Next EinsteinAssembly wrapped up a sitting in Arusha, Tanzania, and sought clarity on what is being done to implement the third pillar of integration, the Monetary Union. The EAC Treaty provides for four pillars of integration: the Customs Union, Common Market, Monetary Union and Political Federation. Dr Rwigema said: “As of now, the first two pillars are being executed but we are aware that East Africans are desirous to use one common currency, and to integrate politically.” “Can the Chairperson of the Council of Ministers inform this August House the status of implementation of the third and fourth pillars of the integration?” Partner States negotiated a Protocol for establishment of the East African Monetary Union (EAMU) which was signed by regional leaders in November 2013. It sets out the process and prerequisites for attaining a monetary union in the region over a period of 10 years. The Monetary Union is expected to be in place in 2024 with introduction of a common currency to replace national currencies and establishment of a regional central bank – the East African Central Bank (EACB) – which can be hostesolutions, without making every effort to procure the services here. It doesn’t make sense,” The President said. Kagame called for the use of African specialists to give them a chance to grow and compete professionally. “Let’s use the resources we have to give these talented African specialists the chance to grow and compete professionally,” he said.\ Though doing so might come at an extra cost, the Head of State said that it will only be for the short time “There may be some extra costs in the short term. But doing so will not only build our institutions but increase our capacity for international collaboration as well,” he added. This would undo a scenario whereby for far too long, the continent has been left behind in regards to scientific advancement he saidopportunity for stakeholders to discuss mechanisms and strategies on how to deepen financial inclusion in the region. To be hosted by the Association of Microfinance Institutions in Rwanda (AMIR), the forthcoming meeting, slated for March 21-22, is expected to discuss strategies that will help fosteraddress the most urgent challenges affecting the sector, especially in Rwanda,” Nkuranga told The New Times yesterday. The experts are also expected to discuss progress in policy, regulations and industry practices as well as client protection, he added. The microfinance industry is a key player in efforts to deepen beyond passing knowlegde tocredit coops) declined from 13.1 per cent in 2016 to 12.9 per cent in 2017. The National Bank of Rwanda (BNR) recently called on microfinance institutions (MFIs) across the country to embrace automation and reduce the rate of bad loans before the end of the year. This will, according to Monique Nsanzabaganwa, the deputy vice governor of the central government, business, and educational institutions all reinforce each other,” he said. Further progress can be achieved through creating linkages and partnerships between higher learning institutions, firms and research communities. “Scientific researchis fundamentally about cooperation across borders. Its global character accelerates the process of discovery and multiplies the benefits. We do not