Everyday skills like doing the laundry, dish washing, cooking, gardening, and cleaning need to be learnt. Here are a few tips that may help you teach your children to perform everyday tasks diligently and live with people peacefully. Teach them to value time. In today’s world, time is extremely important and the faster the pace of our lives the less of this priceless resource we seem to have. Your children need to learn this. You can teach your children to keep time in everyday things. For instance if you have agreed that you will go visit uncle John on Sunday afternoon, then come Sunday afternoon, you should be on your way to Uncle John’s. No excuses lest you teach them to procrastinate and postpone. Buy your children simple watches or have a clock at home that you can all use to tell the time so that they can be punctual. Next to punctuality, have a plan. A plan could be daily, weekly, monthly or even yearly. A daily schedule for instance would include the time your child gets up, meal times, time for reading, play, prayer and chores. Having a clear schedule at least for the important tasks will encourage your child to be responsible. Remember that most successful people have plans that they follow through. Instill that in your young one. House Chores. Rule number one should be ‘no couch potatoes’! If your children watch TV or play video games from the moment they wake up to the moment they say goodnight, it’s time for a few reforms around the house. Teach them how to do house chores starting with the basic and simple stuff. When it comes to laundry for instance, teach them how to wash their underwear, handkerchiefs, socks then gradually to wash the rest of their clothes and eventually things like curtains, bed sheets etc. Everyone should take turns at doing the dishes, cooking, cleaning; be it a boy or a girl. After all, they all live in the same house, right? Teach them how to care for themselves in the way that you would care for them because someday they will have to take care of themselves and their families. Instill in them that money doesn’t fall from the sky. Children need to learn early on that money is earned through hard work. No matter how well off you are, your children need to learn how to work for their own money; otherwise, how will they know its worth? No, we do not support child labour but they can earn pocket money from poultry keeping, growing & selling vegetables from home, making & selling treats like ice-creams and popcorn; the list is endless. Teach your children to spend wisely, have a budget and most importantly, to save. Doing so will help them not to be over-dependent on you especially after they’ve finished school. Another important skill you can impart on your children is choosing ones words carefully. Your children will need to learn that they way they speak to their siblings and peers should be different from how they speak to adults. They should learn that words have the power to heal and hurt and once spoken, they cannot be taken back. They should learn that one can express themselves without outright cursing. The best way of instilling all this is by setting a good example. If you use a lot of curse words, control your tongue especially when the young ones are around otherwise you will soon hear them cursing as well. That words can make or break even the strongest relationships is one of the most important lessons you will ever teach your children– be a good example.  For comments and/or inquires please call 116 National Child Helpline. This is a toll free service available across all networks in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar. Facebook: Sema Tanzania; Twitter: @SemaTanzania or visit our website: www.sematanzania.org