(Photo/The Observer) UNICEF says children continue to experience extreme suffering as a result of conflict in South Sudan and remain vulnerable to disease outbreaks. (Photo/UNHCR) Released prisoners walk into freedom after the presidential pardon in Bujumbura recently. (Photo/ Reuters) 16 DAILY NEWS, TUESDAY, MARCH 20 - 26, 2018 Bujumbura, Monday ONE among other factors that cause Burundi to remain among the poorest countries in the world is the lack of development of the touristic sector. This is mainly caused by the bad image of the country presented by some Burundians. Faustin Ndikumana: “The government should seek why people are tarnishing the image of their country and find a solution” “CNDD-FDD members, FNL members …all Burundians included are victims of poverty because Burundi does not receive tourists. Everyone has to learn to present the good image of his country”. This was said by the Leonidas Habonimana, Burundi National Tourism-ONT Representative, in a meeting with public and private partners. Habonimana says Burundi is not in war and tourists can come to visit the country. “There are other countries which are less peaceful than our country, but they still welcome a lot of tourists,”he says, adding that tourists who dare come to Burundi despite what is said go back with a positive image of the country. “Some tourists are surprised once they discover how the country is peaceful”, he also says. For Faustin Ndikumana, Chairman of a local NGO aiming at changing people’s mentality -PARCEM, it is not acceptable to see Burundi being classified among the poorest countries with all the tourism potentials it has. He says everybody should think of the impact of what they say about their country. Bujumbura, Monday FOLLOWING 160 interviews carried out recently in Burundi for the year 2018, added to 500 conducted last year, Doudou Diène, new Chairman of the commission of Inquiry on Burundi has declared in front of the Human Rights Council, recently, that the situation remains similar to that observed last year. Diène denounced the arbitrary arrests and detentions, cases of tortures and disappearances as well as non-respect of the rightBurundi, opponents of the referendum vote scheduled for May 2018 are arrested and victims of summary executions”, says he further said. For the UN commission, many Burundians are reported being harassed or abused because they are suspected they will vote “no” in the referendum or refusing to register on the electoral roll for the poll. “Some people have also reported a multiplication of contributions requested from the population, sometimes under duress by either officials or Imboner