Deputy Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office, Union and Environment, Kangi Lugola, issued a two-week ultimatum over the weekend, threatening disciplinary measures against DEDs failing to comply with the order. Speaking after inspecting environmental degradation at Ngerengere River sources in Morogoro Region, Mr Lugola reminded that similar order was previously issued but only few directors complied. “My office has issued several orders asking DEDs to submit the list of water sources available in their areas, but only few directors have complied ... I’m now giving them two-week ultimatum to act,” he said. Mr Lugola who also toured the flood affected areas at Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA), said Union and Environment Minister January Makamba gave the initial order, which was unfortunately not implemented. He blamed the continued environmental disasters on non- implementation of the order. “I am suspicious and I reiterate President John Magufuli’s remarks that some of his appointees don’t understand what they are required to do ... after two weeks, I will hand over to the names of DEDs who will fail to work on the order,” he said, quoting Dr Magufuli’s statement at the recent Tanzania National Business Council (TNBC) meeting. Mr Lugola warned that the rate at which water sources are being destroyed in the region risked the university’s existence. “The extent at which floods have destroyed dormitories, teachers’ houses and other university infrastructure threatens wiping out Mazimbu campus of SUA in the near future,” he said. SUA Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raphael Chibunda, said the campus has a history of being hit by floods, but this year’s overflows were more severe due to increased human activities in the water sources. “Floods prevented us from accessing one of our farm, some four students cheated death as they nearly drowned. We were forced to bring an excavator to expand water channels to check flood impacts,” he said. Prof Chibunda told the minister that “We believe your tour will help in pulling together resources to end this disaster because if we don’t take measures we may be forced to close this campus in two years’ time. ” The university has 9,300 students, with over 400 of them staying at Mazimbu Campus. Morogoro Regional Environment Officer Venance Segere said the region was undergoing research to put in place a long-term strategic plan to end invasion of water sources in the region. “We will, among other things, promote tree planting campaign, close sand quarry in water sources and guide people whose activities are near water sources to mitigate floods during rain seasons,” he stressed. The university and National Environment Management Council co-organised deputy minister’s tour.