After the planting, Ms Ke addressed the farmers, community leaders, government officials and members of the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi saying: “It is a difficult undertaking, working in a wetland and mud is a challenge. We should support you to improve farming by using modern Chinese technology,” Dressed in white T-Shirts printed ‘Production Up, Poverty Down’ and gumboots, the ambassador accompanied by an officer from her office and others from the Zanzibar government were there to witness the launch of “Benefiting Tanzania with Chinese Rice Cultivation Technology 2018. ” This is the first ever boost in rice production and according to the ambassador and other speakers at the colourful launching ceremony held with the ‘Cheju Village Rice farms’, the project is anticipated to drastically increase production. Lack of skills/technology, equipment, old mindset and continued rain dependence are main reasons that the Minister responsible for Agriculture Mr Rashid Ali Juma and Minister of State (Second Vice-President’s Office) Mr Mohamed Aboud Mohamed mentioned as challenges hampering rice farming. “We need to change everything for us to move forward in agriculture. Farmers are only growing rice on only a small portion of more than three thousand hectares. Large area of land allocated to rice is still underutilised,” Mr Juma said. Mr Ali Uzia Khamis- Irrigation officer said that Cheju has about 605 rice farmers farming on only 90 hectares (900 plots) out of 1,500 hectares allocated for irrigation and the production/harvest, twice a year, farmers benefit from only small tons of rice. “Benefiting Tanzania with Chinese Rice Cultivation Technology 2018” project starts as a pilot on four plots with training of four farmers about the new technology to increase production in short period of time. China ambassador to Tanzania said the new rice farming technology from her country will make changes to the farmers in both Zanzibar and the mainland where the practice has already started in Morogoro Region. Ms Ke said that such moves not only end the history of huge food shortages, but also enable Tanzania to provide agricultural exports to neighbouring countries in bumper harvest years, “Under the leadership of President Shein and the Zanzibar government, Zanzibar’s agriculture has achieved rapid development in recent years, and China is sincerely happy about this.” She said that at the same time, it should also be noted that the abundant agricultural resources in Zanzibar have not been effectively developed. Crop planting is still in the mode of typical primitive small-scale farming economy.Household farming is scattered, farming methods are backward, strains are of poor quality, and yield is not high. The provision of rice, flour, edible oil and many other kinds of food still depends on imports, “So, there is still a long way to go for the agricultural development in Zanzibar. China and Zanzibar developed a close firm friendship. Ms Ke informed the gathering that China has always been actively supporting the development of people’s livelihood and engineering construction in Zanzibar. In the 1960s and 1970s, China successively launched aid projects of agricultural machinery factory, Mahonda Sugar Factory, sugarcane farm, to mention a few. The campaign or the new project is implemented by “China-Aided Agricultural Technology Demonstration Centre,” which since its establishment in 2011, has carried out more than 30 specialized technical trainings in five fields: rice, corn, vegetable, banana tissue culture and hen-raising, with more than 5,000 participating trainees. She said that the average yield of rice in the demonstration centre is as high as 8-12 tons per hectare, while the average yield of rice in Tanzania is only two tons per hectare. “Now more and more farmers in Tanzania adopt Chinese rice cultivation techniques and enjoy bumper harvests.” Ms Wang Ke said that so far the Tanzanian farmers highly prefer this Chinese rice technology, and come to study in the demonstration centre. Out of admiration one after another since this technology can help them significantly increase rice production. Thus increase their house hold income. Prof Chen Hualin- Director, ‘China-Aided Agricultural Technology Demonstration Centre’ undertaken by the ‘Tanzanian Demonstration Centre of China Agricultural Technology and has been implementing for 3 years in some parts of the country. He said the ‘Tanzanian Demonstration Centre of China Agricultural Technology’ is a Chinese government-to-Tanzania agricultural aid project which was the result of the Beijing Summit of the 3rd China-Africa cooperation forum and undertaken by Chongqing Zhongye Seed Industry Co., Ltd. Located in Dakawa, Morogoro, the Centre has carried out the trials, demonstrations and technical trainings to share experience of Chinese agricultural development with Tanzania side and help local farmers improve the output of food crops, played an important role in promoting Tanzania’s agricultural development and improving people’s livelihood. Through technical cooperation, the advanced agricultural technologies and a batch of rice, maize and vegetable varieties have been introduced from China to Tanzania, and after several years of trials and demonstrations, the performance were good in the fields of rice, corn, vegetables, banana tissue culture and layers chicken breeding, etc. Prof Hualin said “We are happy to receive good comments from local farmers, officials and experts, More than 30 terms of intensive training programs have been held for 1,800 local farmers and sporadically technical training and consultation have been done for 2,800 local farmers.” In the season of 2015/2016, the experts from the centre gave technical support to Mr Zulfika Mituro, a local farmer in Rufiji district, Coast region. By using Chinese technology, his rice production reached 9.3 tons per hectare, attracting flocks of local farmers visiting his farm. Mr Mituro said that since he started applying the new technology, he has increased rice production in Rufiji from below 15 tons to 36 tons per hectare, as he called rice farmers in the country to accept the new method and follow the guidelines for better production. Prof Chen Hualin said program has improved the local farmers’ level of agricultural technology, for example, by implementing the village-level rice cultivation demonstration project in Dakawa ward in 2017, the rice in the demonstration plots performed well and produced high yields. He said with the unit yields of the two rain-fed demonstration plots averaged 8.1tons per hectare and 8.6 tons maximum; and the unit yield of the four irrigation demonstration plots averaged 9 tons per hectare and 10.1 tons maximum. Prof Hualin said that the Chinese technology has played an excellent example to increase the production for 2,000 farmers on more than 1,000 hectares of paddy field in the Dakawa Rice Production Area in Morogoro. The Demonstration Centre provides the farmers in the demonstration plots with technical supports by sending Chinese experts to the sites, with technical guidelines, seeds, fertilizers as well as, to some extent, the mini agricultural machineries and tools as the supporting gifts, such as mini tillers, water pumps, mini threshing machines, motorcycles, knapsack sprayers, hoes and sickles, etc. Hualin- agricultural experts said “We believe, through the technology transferring program in favour of local farmers, by carrying out the program for demonstrations and promotion of Chinese agricultural technology, agricultural machinery display and technical training, it will benefit local farmers, and improve local farmer’s agricultural technical level,” adding that it will also.