The first phase of the massive project, which will cost 10.9bn/-, has been accomplished by 15 per cent. The project is one of many currently being carried out by the government in order to quench rural and urban thirsts for clean and safe water. It is thumbs up to the Fifth Phase Government. Water shortages are a nagging headache in many parts of Tanzania. The government has, nevertheless, made a firm commitment to tackle the shortages of clean and safe water which remain critical mainly in rural villages. Vice-President Samia Suluhu made this pledge when addressing a rally at Mugumu in Serengeti district in June, last year. Ms Samia said that as a woman she is aware of the severity of the problem village women face when looking for clean and safe water for domestic use. In fact, water shortages afflict most of the 12,000 villages in rural Tanzania -- a situation that also smacks of poverty. Village women often wake up a few hours after midnight, pick up water pots and travel on foot to distant gullies where holes scooped out in the sandy ground yield water. These distant sandy locations are often the only sources of water for a large number of villages. Indeed, It is not uncommon for women in rural Tanzania to cover huge distances on foot to fetch water that is not even considered safe to drink. In Tanzanian cities most people wake up each morning and turn on a tap without giving it a thought. Some rural women carry as much as 20 kilos on their heads as they walk 10 kilometres or more each way, to and from the water sources. Of course, the state is busy working on the problem. It provides access to clean water by drilling boreholes -- albeit at a slow pace. As if the shortage of clean and safe water is not bad enough villagers often contract dangerous diseases from contaminated, murky water. Cholera is, arguably, the most dangerous waterborne disease that thrives in both rural and urban centres. In urban centres, a cholera outbreak hits really hard where unsanitary conditions prevail mostly in congested places occupied by squatters. Squatter areas are mainly occupied by the poor who live in filthy conditions with no clean piped water. Here swarms of houseflies roam at will spreading a variety of fearsome diseases. It is these unsanitary conditions that are often the source of numerous fast killers such as cholera, dysentery and typhoid. Inadequate access to safe water and sanitation services, coupled with poor hygiene practices, kills and sickens hundreds of people, especially children, every day and leads to impoverishment and diminished opportunities for thousands more in this country.