Dr Shein was speaking to former Inspector General of Police Ernest Mangu who will be representing the country in Rwanda and Major General (retired) Simon Mumwi who will be stationed in Russia. The two diplomats paid a courtesy call on the Zanzibar Head of State ahead of resuming their new roles. President Shein said Tanzania’s prosperity relies heavily on its ties with other countries and it was important that the country’s envoys strengthened trade and commercial relations with the respective countries. “Our two governments are envisioned towards strengthening the industrial economy, including large, middle and small industries and it is very important that the country’s diplomats should focus on attracting investors from respective countries to support this drive,” Dr Shein told the two ambassadors. The Zanzibar President recalled the existing strong ties between Tanzania and Russia, a country he praised for its tremendous socio-economic development, including massive industrialisation and underscored the need to further strengthen the relationship so that Tanzania could benefit from Russia’s experience. He said Zanzibar and Russia in particular had fostered decades-long friendly relations, which saw a strong cooperation in different areas; revealing that the Indian Ocean Island benefited from scholarships offered by the Eastern Europe nation. “There’s every reason to further strengthen the relationship between these two countries,” he told the new Ambassador to Russia, Mr Mumwi. He named potential areas of cooperation between Tanzania and Russia as tourism, fisheries, industries and agriculture. “We need to invite Russian investors to come and invest in Zanzibar especially in the fisheries and industrial sectors… we know that Russians are good in shipbuilding, they produce heavy vessels, even history tells us the first big vessel was built in Russia,” Dr Shein stated. He mentioned other areas of cooperation as education sector, and asked Mr Mamwi to help build ties between Zanzibar and Russian Universities for exchange programmes and knowledge sharing. On the other hand, Dr Shein said his government was committed to foster strong ties with Rwanda, disclosing that the two had already reached an agreement for RwandaAir to fly direct to Zanzibar. President Shein told former IGP Mangu that it was high time the agreement was implemented so as to boost tourists’ arrivals in Zanzibar. The two diplomats promised to work on all directives and pledged to provide a patriotic service abroad to attain the country’s diplomatic and economic goals, especially the much-sought industrialisation.