Ms Hassan made the remarks when laying a foundation stone for the construction of an office building for the disabled in Shaurimoyo Constituency, Urban West, in Zanzibar, during the second- day of her tour of Unguja to inspect Chama cha Mapinduzi’s investments and the implementation of the 2015/2020 CCM manifesto. The Vice-President said disabled persons have their talents and aptitude to do great things if, after all they’re supported and empowered, and urged the society to back up efforts geared at offering skills, jobs and economic independence to disabled people. “We’re all human beings and have equal rights, the able-bodied people and disabled share the same human behaviour and needs and have their talents,” the VP told the gathering. Ms Suluhu insisted that most disabled people are blessed with wonderful talents and that when given care and support, they can reach their full potential same as ablebodied people, suggesting that some could even work in small industries with given proper training. “I once had my gown made by a blind person and I was really surprised at the way he measured the size of my dress, thus, he only measured around my wrist and neck but the gown was a flattering fit,” the VP stated. She recalled that people with disabilities can do a range of economic activities and urged the society to utilise well their talent and potential. Mama Samia was particularly enthralled by a young deaf lady, who eloquently read the message by the Shaurimoyo Disabled Association to the Vice-President, asserting she could make up a good TV or Radio presenter. The VP spoke of the importance of quality care for disabled children and appealed to parents to avoid locking in their disabled children, while pledging her support to the centre. She said the ruling party, CCM, was sensitive to the plight of disabled people and had dedicated a whole chapter in its manifesto to address the needs of that particular group. Thus, she was happy to note that the Shaurimoyo Representative and other party leaders were making efforts, including soliciting funds to support the cause of the disabled members of the society. “This new centre will help teach and train our children with disability; hence my call to parents with disabled children is that you should bring them to this centre because these can benefit from being around their peers and people outside their family network,” she stated. Speaking at the event, the party’s Deputy Secretary- General in Zanzibar, Dr Abdallah Juma Sadalla Mabodi and CCM Chairperson for Urban West Region, Mr Talib Ali saluted the Shaurimoyo Representative, Mr Hamza Hassan Juma, for ensuring that persons with disabilities in his constituency enjoy inclusive societal services, as proclaimed in the party’s manifesto.