Zanzibar Trade and Industries Minister Ambassador Amina Salum Ali graced the signing ceremony in Urban West region, hailing the deal as a landmark step towards realising the Isles’ industrial dream. “It’s a special and very significant day for Zanzibar and Zanzibaris. We’re very excited to secure good market for our oiliness products and reliable investor to revive the Pemba essential oil distillery,” said Ambassador Ali. The deal seeks to transform the distillery in the suburb of Machomane in Chake Chake, with Zanzibar also set to benefit from imported s kills and technology to increase production of Zanzibar oiliness. The minister said the deal signing will open up more job opportunities to Zanzibaris along the production and value added chain, charging that once operational at full capacity, the ZSTC operated industry will boost Zanzibar economy. “The industry will use agricultural raw materials and this will certainly boost agricultural sector and increase farmers’ revenues,” she said, adding that Zanzibar and other African nations boast massive resources but only fail to utilise the God-given resources and export markets. She said the envisaged renovation and expansion of the clove industry demonstrates the government’s ambition to propel the country towards industrial economy as envisioned in the Zanzibar Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty, MKUZA III. ZSTC Director Dr Said Seif Mzee and Chairman of Kunshan Asia Aroma Corporation Ltd, Mr John Zhou inked the deal that will see the Chinese firm injecting five million US dollars (about 11bn/-) initially to install new machines capable of producing two varieties of essential oils simultaneously. According, to Dr Mzee, currently the facility can produce only one type of oiliness. While it’s popular for turning clove stems into essential oil, the industry occasionally produce eucalyptus, cinnamon and emongrass oiliness. Ambassador Ali said as part of the deal Zanzibar is required to meet the investor’s demand of 2,000 tons of clove buds and 1,000 tons of eucalyptus, annually. ZSCT currently produces only 60 tons of clove buds but the minister expressed optimism, saying with more efforts in cloves and eucalyptus cultivation across Zanzibar, the target will be met. “It’s a big call but we’re optimistic of achieving the target over time, we will gradually increase our production to 2,000 tons of clove buds. We need to produce 20,000 tons of cloves per annum,” the minister boasted. She urged Zanzibaris to grab the opportunity by working hard on the fields to increase production of cloves and eucalyptus, saying the reliable market for their produce is readily available. Speaking during the event, Kunshan Asia Aroma Chairman, expressed his company’s plans to transform Zanzibar aroma industry and turn the Isles into leading supplier and exporter of essential oils in the region.