Reports from the country’s commercial capital indicate that 12 people died over the past one week due to flooding caused by heavy rains which have also destroyed infrastructure and private property. “We are praying for those who lost their lives due to floods which have been caused by the rains. The government urges people who are still in flood prone areas to vacate immediately for the sake of their lives and property,” Mr Majaliwa stressed. The premier made the call in the august House yesterday when responding to a question by Temeke MP, Mr Abdallah Mtolea (CUF), during the customary Thursday questionand- answer session. Mr Mtolea had complained that poor infrastructure for storm water was becoming a menace in the city and tasked the government to explain measures it had in place to address the challenge. He also called for having in place rescue teams for such disasters. In response, the PM informed the House that plans were underway to improve drainage infrastructure in the city, particularly along the Msimbazi River valley, which is notorious for recurring floods whenever it rains. “We have in place the Dar es Salaam Master Plan (DMP) through which we aim to address and put to an end the problem of floods along the Msimbazi valley and other areas with poor drainage system,” Mr Majaliwa explained. On the other hand, however, the premier expressed misgivings over the fact that while the government had been urging residents in flood-prone areas to vacate, some politicians rallied behind them, urging them to stay put, despite the dangers posed by floods. Meanwhile, Mr Majaliwa has assured the National Assembly that the government will make a consideration to exempt taxes on sanitary pads to enable girls countrywide to access the towels at affordable cost. “The government has put in place procedures to be considered before making tax exemptions; responsible ministers will look into the matter and look at the possibility of making recommendations in the Finance Bill to exempt taxes on the pads,” Mr Majaliwa remarked. The PM was responding to a question by Special Seats MP Ms Upendo Peneza (Chadema), who had proposed for a tax waiver to enable schoolgirls to afford the towels. Ms Peneza had pointed out that since the Tanzania education policy stressed equal education for all, it was high time the government waived taxes on the pads to allow girls to attend classes throughout.