At its meeting held in Luanda, Angola, the Double Troika Summit of Heads of State and Governments of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) noted that significant progress had been made in implementing the December 2016 Political Agreement and in the electoral calendar in the DRC. A statement released by Ambassador Innocent Shiyo from the Department of Regional Cooperation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, said that the summit commended the DRC Government, political stakeholders and the National Independent Electoral Commission (CENI) for the progress made. DRC delayed elections are scheduled for December 23 this year. The summit further noted the substantive progress made in DRC and revisited its decision to deploy a SADC Special Envoy to the DRC. It expressed its appreciation to the Republic of Namibia and Mr Hifikepunye Pohamba, the former President of the Republic of Namibia, for his readiness and acceptance to serve as the SADC Special Envoy to the DRC. Ambassador Shiyo said that the Summit assured the DRC on its continued support to the electoral process and to the enhancement of political stability, peace and security. On another issue, the Summit noted the unfolding developments in the Republic of Madagascar and condemned the loss of lives and destruction of property and urged the Government, political parties and the citizens of Madagascar to remain calm, exercise restraint and take measures to avoid the escalation of the political and security tensions. It approved the urgent deployment of the SADC Former Special Envoy to Madagascar, Mr Joaquim Chissano, the former President of the Republic of Mozambique, to be assisted by the Chairperson of the Ministerial Committee of the Organ and the Secretariat to facilitate a National Dialogue aimed at the de-escalation of the political tensions and reaching consensus on the electoral process. “The Summit mandated the Chairperson of the Organ on Politics, Defence and Security Cooperation to engage the African Union (AU) and the United Nations (UN), with a view to developing a common approach for assisting Madagascar,” said Ambassador Shiyo. The director said that the Summit received Reports on the implementation of SADC decisions in the Kingdom of Lesotho and commended the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotho and all stakeholders for the notable efforts in implementing SADC decisions.