The growth forecasts are premised on expectations that oil and metals prices will remain stable and that governments in the region will implement reforms to address macroeconomic imbalances and boost investment. “Growth has rebounded in Sub-Saharan Africa, but not fast enough. We are still far from precrisis growth levels,” said Albert G. Zeufack, World Bank Chief Economist for the Africa Region. “African Governments must speed up and deepen macroeconomic and structural reforms to achieve high and sustained levels of growth.” The moderate pace of economic expansion reflects the gradual pick-up in growth in the region’s three largest economies, Nigeria, Angola and South Africa. Elsewhere, economic activity will pick up in some metals exporters, as mining production and investment rise. Among non-resource intensive countries, solid growth, supported by infrastructure investment, will continue in the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), led by Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal. Growth prospects have strengthened in most of East Africa, owing to improving agriculture sector growth following droughts and a rebound in private sector credit growth. Africa’s Pulse forecast for Africa corresponds with an outlook by the African Development Bank (AfDB) in which showed East Africa would remain the fastestgrowing sub region in Africa, with estimated growth of 5.6 per cent in 2017, up from 4.9 per cent in 2016 thanks to resurgence in agriculture, infrastructure and manufacturing. The outlook issued in January showed growth in East Africa is expected to remain buoyant, reaching 5.9 per cent in 2018 and firming further to 6.1 per cent in 2019. Strong growth is widespread in the sub region, with many countries including Tanzania, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda growing five per cent or more. In Ethiopia, growth will remain high, as government-led infrastructure investment continues. “For many African countries, the economic recovery is vulnerable to fluctuations in commodity prices and production,” said Punam Chuhan-Pole, World Bank Lead Economist and the author of the report. “This underscores the need for countries to build resilience by pushing diversification strategies to the top of the policy agenda.” Public debt relative to GDP is rising in the region and the composition of debt has changed, as countries have shifted away from traditional concessional sources of financing toward more marketbased ones. Higher debt burdens and the increasing exposure to market risks raise concerns about debt sustainability: 18 countries were classified at high-risk of debt distress in March 2018, compared with eight in 2013. “ By fully embracing technology and leveraging innovation, Africa can boost productivity across and within sectors and accelerate growth,” said Zeufack. This issue of Africa’s Pulse has a special focus on the role of innovation in accelerating electrification in Sub-Saharan Africa and its implications of achieving inclusive economic growth and poverty reduction The report finds that achieving universal electrification in Sub-Saharan Africa will require a combination of solutions involving the national grid, as well as “minigrids” and “micro-grids” serving small concentrations of electricity users and off-grid home-scale systems. Improving regulation of the electricity sector and better management of utilities remain key to success