Mr Makamba observed this in Dar es Salaam yesterday at the Mwalimu Nyerere Memorial Symposium which was held under the theme “Towards a middle-income economy: The role played by Mwl Nyerere on promoting peace, national unity and accountability.” The event was held at the Mwalimu Nyerere Memorial University and was attended by former high-ranking leaders, including former Speaker Mama Anna Makinda, retired Prime Minister Joseph Warioba, former Minister Mark Mwandosia and former Assistant to Mwalimu, Mr Samuel Kasori, among others. “Majority of the youth seek information rather than knowledge, much as the means is readily available to them …we should seek knowledge by reading on the history of the country for the betterment of our nation,” said Mr Makamba. He further called on the youth to capitalise their endless efforts to seek knowledge and also evaluate themselves on whether their use of social media is constructive or otherwise. The minister described Mwalimu as a high calibre person who used knowledge he acquired constructively, saying that at the age of 32, he became the president regardless of the barriers and the situation back then. “What excuse do you have now with all the platforms and channels of obtaining knowledge … it is critical that we evaluate ourselves on how we use these opportunities,” he said. Mr Makamba, however, summoned the youth to play their part wisely and that by doing that they should also find out their missions in making Tanzania a better place. On the other hand, he said the task of building the nation continues, saying it is therefore the responsibility of the youth to push the agenda forward. He pointed out that half of the people who were gathered at the symposium were not present in 1999 when Mwl Nyerere passed away and 80 per cent were also not present when he retired. He, therefore, requested the elders who were present to pass on the history and knowledge they acquired from Mwl Nyerere. “The numbers of elders who are present here today are an institutional memory of Mwl Nyerere, therefore, the knowledge that you have is very important for demonstrating the legacy of our heroes By just citing the examples of these heroes, we can be able to create such people with the same calibre and spirit in our country,” he said. The Mwalimu Nyerere Foundation Executive Director, Mr Joseph Butiku, stressed on the need to emulate the principles of the late father of the nation, saying that the only way that it can be done is by reading the books that he wrote. “The aspect of building industrialisation was clearly stated by Mwalimu, it involves people and the required knowledge to establish industries … these are among his principles,” noted Mr Butiku. The Chairman of the Board of Parole and former Home Affairs Minister, Mr Agustino Mrema urged those present not to encourage things that may disrupt the national unity and peace of the country. “We should honour the good principles which were laid down by Mwl Nyerere and on top of all promote nationalism,” he noted.