Asilia, which operates 15 luxurious camps and lodges in Tanzania and five camps in Kenya, has been recognised for its outstanding compliance with responsible tourism practices, outshining other properties in eight African countries. Jeroen Harderwijk, Co- founder and Managing Director of Asilia said, “We are extremely proud to be singled out by Fair Trade Tourism as a leading responsible tourism company in Africa.” “Making a positive impact is integrated into all our management routines. What gets measured gets done. The great benefit of certification schemes like Fair Trade is that they help to benchmark performance so that together we can continue to raise the bar,” he said. The survey found that Asilia has 48 per cent of its properties certified at best-practice responsible tourism level, announced by the Fair Trade Tourism (FTT) that reviewed the certification of safari lodges and camps in eight African countries, namely South Africa, Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique and Madagascar. Ten properties – Sayari, Oliver’s, Little Oliver’s, Namiri, Olakira, Dunia, Namiri, Ubuntu in Tanzania and Naboisho and Rekero in Kenya – have been independently audited against best-practice criteria set by the Global Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC) and are certified or recognised by the FTT. Fair Trade Tourism is one of the most recognised certification marks in the world, with 90 per cent recognition in the UK, 87 per cent in Switzerland, 85 per cent in the Netherlands, 72 per cent in Germany. Nearly 60 tour operators globally are approved to package Fair Trade Holidays which are required to have over 50 per cent bed nights in the FTT certified establishments. In addition, Asilia remains the only safari company in Africa to be certified by the Global Impact Investment Rating System (GIIRS). Ranked at Platinum Level, Asilia is in the top 10 of impactful companies worldwide. Asilia is the first Sustainable Safari/Lodge Company in Africa to receive a 5 Star rating for Sustainability from GIIRS, was recognised as one of the “Best Companies for the World” in 2013 and awarded the 2014 Tourism for Tomorrow Business Award.