The Tanzanian Community in Dallas has once again planned for this year’s to take place in Dallas, Texas on the 27th to 29 of April following a successful event last year. The three-day annual event baptizes Tanzania Day will centre on tourism promotion and business opportunities with ‘A Safari to the Top, soaring to New Heights’ theme. The organizing committee said yesterday in a statement that the number this year was expecting to triple from the last year event following a very successful inaugural Tanzania Day. The organizing committee said Tanzanians from all over the US from Alaska to Maine, from Seattle to Florida as well as Tanzanians from outside the US will converge in Dallas to experience the event. “ This number is expected to triple in this year given the excellent feedback and modifications that has been made including free for the public to the Tanzania Day Festival,” the statement read. In a letter to the organizers, the governor of Texas Mr Greg Abbot said they are “very proud” to have the enrichment of Tanzanian culture and commended the unity that exists between Tanzania and the US. “I join you in paying tribute to the unity between Tanzania and the United States, particularly Texas. “You are building on a foundation of success created by those who came before you,” he said in his letter. Dallas’ Mayor, Mr Mike Rawlings commended the organizers for their great work, toiling around the clock to make this event an absolute success. “Allow me to say ‘Karibu’, [welcome] to Dallas, I myself have been to Tanzania and I can say those were the best weeks of my life,” he said. Mr Benedict Kazora the president of the Tanzanian community in Dallas said Tanzanians are the ones to tell their stories and in the right perspective. “We are the greatest ambassadors for our country, we are making Tanzanian Day a platform that will give us that chance,” Mr Kazora said. b nTanzania Day is by far the largest event organized by Tanzanians in the US to date celebrating Tanzania’s culture, tradition and heritage. The event will also showcase Tanzanian products, Tanzania’s natural resources including the famous Serengeti, the world’s tallest freestanding Mountain Kilimanjaro, the magnificent Zanzibar Island and much more. It will explore investment opportunities as well as examine transferable skills and technology. For those entrepreneurs in Tanzania especially with cultural products and services, this is a good platform, all you need to do is register through www.tanzaniaday.com Mr Kazora also thanked Turkish airlines, Tanzania office for their support by offering tickets to the journalists, enabling them to travel to Dallas to cover the event. “We are grateful to Turkish airlines for not having a second thought while we approached them and immediately coming through. Texas is home to the highest concentrations of Tanzanians in the U