According to the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA), the system which was established for trial in December, 2016, aims at ensuring safety and security of passengers and their properties are given priority throughout the trip. As of January, 2017, 40 buses had been connected to the system. Sumatra Director General Gilliard Ngewe told the ‘Daily News’ in his office over the weekend that hitherto 859 buses have been connected and by June 30 this year, all upcountry buses will be hooked to the system, which enables the authority to monitor the bus throughout the journey, from the beginning to the end of the trip. He said in comparison to the previous years, bus accidents in the country have decreased significantly because bus owners and drivers know that they are constantly monitored to identify the mistakes by drivers on the move. “VTS enables us to track the entire bus movements, including bad use of brakes like sudden braking, standing on the way for a long time, route change and drunken drivers,” said Mr Ngewe. He said the system began officially in October last year after the passing of Transport Licensing (Public Service Vehicles) Regulations 2017, with 859 buses having already been linked to the system. He confirmed that by June 30, this year, all passenger buses in the country will be connected to VTS, and then trucks, cars and motorcycles will follow. He said the system is currently operating on buses travelling from Dar es Salaam to Lake Zone and Southern Highlands regions of Sumbawanga, Mbeya, Iringa and Songea (Ruvuma), while buses from Dar es Salaam to Kilwa, Lindi and Masasi will be linked on VTS this week, before Tanga, Moshi, Rombo and Arusha buses following suit. “In 2015, we set aside a 3bn/- budget to establish this system with its centre at Mikocheni in Dar es Salaam. Through the VTS system, the bus driver travelling at over 86 km/h will cause the device we lock on the bus to alarm, indicate that the driver is overspeeding or if the bus has changed its route will also be seen in the control room and it will be reading ‘off-route’,” said Mr Ngewe. Ngewe said that the implementation of the system for tracking passenger buses is part of the implementation of the 10-year campaign (2011-2020) of the United Nations (UN) to reduce accidents. The Sumatra boss said that the current penalties to drivers violating road safety rules and whose buses have been linked to the VTS system are those provided by the police, including the 30,000/- notification. He said after merging all buses into the VTS by June 30, then Sumatra’s penalty of 250,000/- fine will be effected. “There has been serious violation of laws and traffic signs; so through this system, we want to have professional drivers with driving licence class ‘C’ that allows them to drive passenger buses; they have also been instructed to undergo a twoweek special driving training at the National Institute of Transport (NIT) or Vocational Educational and Training Authority (VETA),” he insisted. One of the bus owners who spoke to the ‘Daily News’ appreciated Sumatra for establishing the system to track their buses. Dar Lux Buses Company Executive Director Donald Simagunga said through VTS, he has been able to save 80 litres of diesel per bus on one trip travelling from Dar es Salaam to Mwanza. Simagunga said that prior to the VTS, he was using 500 litres of diesel for one trip, but he currently uses only 420 litres per trip. He said if the bus travels at high speed it also consumes more fuel, adding that connecting his buses to the VTS has reduced the fuel cost. Apart from saving the fuel, he mentioned other benefits as long survival of tires as the motion becomes normal and declining maintenance costs because the buses do not break down frequently. Observance of traffic rules by drivers has risen as competition among buses decline for they all travel in similar speed.