The First Citizen gave the directive against the backdrop of the latest road accident which killed 12 people and injured 46 people in Igunga District, Tabora Region, on Wednesday night. He directed the police force, regional and district security and defence committees, as well as other responsible organs, to take appropriate actions to curb the menace. President Magufuli asked Tabora Regional Commissioner Aggrey Mwanri to convey condolences to the families of the people who lost their lives in the accident. He also prayed for the deceased to rest in eternal peace, as well as quick recovery for those who sustained injuries. “I hereby convey my condolences to all the mourners who have lost their relatives and friends in the road accident,” Dr Magufuli stated in a message issued yesterday by the Directorate of Presidential Communications. The accident occurred at around 8:00pm at Makomero village in Igunga District, Tabora Region, claiming the lives of 12 people who were passengers in a bus christened ‘City Bus’ which was heading Dar es Salaam from Karagwe in Kagera Region. The bus was involved in a head-on collision with lorry of Fuso make which was travelling from Singida Region to Igunga. On March 24, this year, a road accident involving a minibus and lorry at Mwalusembe Ward in Coast Region claimed the lives of 26 people. Meanwhile, SYLIVESTER DOMASA reports from Dodoma that the Minister of Home Affairs, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba,has directed traffic police to impose heavy fines and arrest speeding motorists. In a push for new measures to end road accidents, he informed the National Assembly in the designated capital city that it was high time revisions were made on the Road Traffic Act, 1973 to impose additional and harsher penalties for offenders. The minister voiced the sentiments while delivering a government statement on traffic accidents which have of late become rampant, causing deaths, injuries and loss of properties. “All drivers arrested for speeding must be detained and arraigned to face charges,” the minister stressed, adding: “We usually impose fines primarily as a measure of reminding drivers to adhere to road safety rules but it seems some of them hardly care because they know that they will get away with the offenses after paying fines. ” Accounts from eye witnesses who were at the scene of the latest accident indicate that the driver of the lorry was trying to avoid a pothole when the vehicle rammed into the bus. Shortly after the question-and-answer session in the august House, Ulanga MP Goodluck Mlinga (CCM), rose and sought the guidance of the Speaker on who should bear the blame for the accident which was caused by the poor state of the road at the section which had a pothole. “I understand that when there is an accident and the police finds out that it was speeding, a penalty is normally imposed to a driver. In this case it was not the fault of the driver but rather the poor state of the road so who is to blame?” the youthful lawmaker queried.