The Chief of Police Force, made the pledge in Arusha, before President Magufuli and the city residents, shortly after they graced the special police demonstrations at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium, where the cops displayed their skills in handling criminals, terrorists, hijackers and other racketeers. “At the moment, a single police officer serves more than 1,170 people, the 1:1200 ratio is just too big to ensure that all people are served well,” said the IGP, explaining that normally one cop is supposed to cater for at least 400 people, or may be 450. “We have a total of 47,000 policemen and women in a country whose population is speeding towards 55 million residents,” pointed out IGP Sirro, adding that between 2015 and 2018, the force has expelled 480 policemen and women for a number of reasons. “In 2015, for instance, 198 police officers were thrown out of the force, in 2016 other 165 followed suit, last year we jettisoned 81 and this year, between January and March, the force sacked 14 cops for, among other things, insubordination, corruption and fabricating false charges against ordinary citizens,” said IGP Sirro. President Magufuli gave the IGP the green light to reinforce his force with more officers but cautioned that, those joining the police force from now, need to be scrutinised properly so that the good name of ‘Police’ should not be tarnished by a few. The Head of State also breathed fire on some of the tasks that the police officers were recently subjected to undertake against their recruitment job descriptions; “I am surprised to see police officers being sent to destroy marijuana farms, we did not hire them to perform these horrid duties,” he said. “If you discover cannabis farms near certain villages, then let the villagers themselves chop the marijuana plants down, themselves; after all they are the ones who sowed them in the first place; don’t bother the police,” warned Dr Magufuli. Hundreds of Arusha residents attended the open-air, police drill at the City Stadium, yesterday. Explosions were deafening as the police officers set to work, it was like a scene from James Bond movie and proved to be an exciting Saturday outing for the residents of Arusha, where there aren’t many entertainment outlets. Former Inspector Generals of Police, Said Mwema and Omar Mahita, were among the special guests who attended the event in Arusha.