AfDB President, Dr Akinumwi Adesina, expressed the commitment in Dodoma before he flew back home yesterday during which he praised President Magufuli for his resolve to fight graft and misuse of government resources, enforce accountability, and propel the country’s economic growth. The construction of Msalato International airport on the outskirts of Dodoma City is of great importance to the nation given the government’s decision to shift its headquarters to the newest city. The AfDB president flew back home after a three-day working tour of Tanzania. Dr Adesina said AfDB would disburse an initial loan amounting to 200bn/- for Msalato airport construction project. He said the bank would also help the government improve Dodoma City’s ringroads to reduce congestion that is beginning to become problematic. He said he held talks with President Magufuli on the implementation of the 2,100 megawatts Stieglers Gorge hydropower projectin Rufiji, Coast Region, pointing out that his bank would find ways of contributing to the undertaking. “We have had an extensive discussion with President Magufuli on the 2,100 megawatts Stiegler’s Gorge project. Our bank will find the best way to contribute to the project,” he said. He added the industrialisation drive could not succeed without sufficient and reliable power, adding that his bank would invest US dollars 1.5 billion in the energy sector and subsequently add another US dollars 950 million for the same purpose. “We will disburse funds for the improvement of power availability in the northern western parts of Tanzania. We also have a plan to improve Tanesco’s performance to enable it produce affordable power to make the country achieve the middle income status by 2025,” Dr Adesina said. The AfDB president said he was certain that Tanzania would continue benefiting from the bank’s soft loans. On his part Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Phillip Mpango, expressed his gratitude for Dr Adesina’s visit, saying it was a blessing, especially after he (Dr Adesina) promised to dish out 200bn/- for Msalato International Airport, coupled with a commitment to finance the construction of ring-roads in Dodoma City. Dr Mpango asked the public to continue supporting the government’s efforts to propel economic development and social welfare enhancement. Tanzania’s pace of economic growth places it on the second slot after Ethiopia. The cooperation between Tanzania and AfDB started way back in 1971 and so far, the bank has invested a total of US dollars 3.6 billion(8trl/-) in various projects.