Representative of the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) who is also the Assistant Director of Human Resources, Mr John Tilubuzya said NEMC training for the officers was timely and designed to increase efficiency on issues related to environment. “ This is a very good working start between the CAG office and NEMC since the training meant a lot for our inspectors especially this time when the main focus of government is to build the mid-sized and industrial base economy,” Mr Tilubuzya said. He congratulated NEMC for being pro-active in environmental management, saying that the officers from CAG office would be equipped with necessary skills needed while in their routine inspection. Opening the training in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the NEMC acting Director General, Dr Vedasto Makota said the nature of training was very useful and instrumental for the officers as the Fifth Phase Government under the stewardship of President John Pombe Magufuli was embracing industrialisation. “Industrialisation and environment are jointly going together. We (NEMC and CAG Office) stand a better chance to support the success of industrializing Tanzania for benefit of all Tanzanians,” Dr Makota said. He thanked the Minister of State in Vice- President’s Office (Union and Environment)kj for appointing the officers from CAG office to be environmental inspectors, saying that they would be good ambassadors while in field. “Environmental management is supposed to be done in collaboration with different sectors that is why Mr Makamba decided to appoint these 36 officers from CAG office to be inspectors. End of the training they be given identification cards,” Dr Makota said. Earlier, an official from CAG office, Ms Estnath Nicodem commended the training, saying they would broaden their understanding and knowledge when approaching issues on environment while in field. “ I am glad that after this training we will be awarded certificates and identity cards that will give us authority to inspect environment, we have conducted audit in various areas dealing with environmental protection but we did not know much about it,” she said. NEMC has prepared to ensure that industrializing Tanzania would be accomplished and the environment remains free all the time from destruction. It has six zones countrywide.