The three-year project, an initiative of the government of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, has been funded by the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA), with the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), providing technical support. The species produced in the hatchery will be milkfish, mangrove crabs and sand fish. The production will be trialled and then up scaled. The centre, which is the first in Africa and among the world’s top ten, can produce 10,000 fish fry, 75,000 crabs and 55,000 sea cucumber offspring, according to the Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources, Livestock and Fisheries, Ms Mariam Abdallah Juma. “Direct beneficiaries of the hatchery are consumers, traders, seed and feed suppliers and the ancillary enterprises built around farms,” the Principal Secretary reveals. The Director of Fisheries and Aquaculture Department at FAO, Dr Emmanuel Barange, who travelled all the way from Rome, Italy to witness the opening of the hatchery says profound demand for fishes across the world calls for such projects, as countries around the globe turn their attention to blue economies. “We all know that fisheries provide many benefits, it provides livelihood for many of you…it provides trade and revenues for government and provides food for people around the world, fish is food,” Dr Barange says. Aquaculture, he notes, has been the fastest growing food production industry in the world during the last 15 years, but only 2.5 percent of aquaculture production comes from Africa. “This needs to change,” he says. There has been no significant farm development for either crab of sand fish in Zanzibar, adds Dr Barange, asserting that the strong market demand for both species indicates that there is great potential for farming development of these two species if seed are made readily available. Dr Barange believes a progressive and expanding aquaculture sector will increase economic activities among Zanzibar communities; increase opportunities for livelihood, employment and income generation and the production of more aquaculture products for food and nutritional security. He says Tanzania produces 400,000 tonnes of inland fishes a year, with Lake Tanganyika and Lake Victoria contributing three quarters of the inland fishes captured per annum. That makes Tanzania among the top-ten list of world producers of inland fishes. Aquaculture production for human consumption however, was only four million tonnes, which is one percent less of aquaculture that is produced in Africa; this demonstrates the potential for growth and development that the fishing sector has. Despite boasting a vast array of water bodies, the Indian Ocean, world renowned lakes and rivers, Tanzanians still consume less fish on average, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) says.