This scenario makes it difficult for one state to protect fish in its territorial waters because the marine creatures keep migrating. Most fish species in Lake Victoria roam in the entire lake without the least regard to what humans call national boundaries. This means that the school of fish that may have been enjoyed protection in Tanzania might not survive once it wanders across the border. It is important, therefore, to have an instrument in the East African Community that monitors illegal fishing in the entire lake. Monitoring the activities of illegal fishers on only one portion of the lake may not offer enough protection to fish stocks. Some Lake Victoria fishermen are rowdy villains. They take spears, arrows, bows and even guns to the fishing grounds. The main reason for this anomaly is that the fishing grounds are also battle zones these days. A fight between men in two fishing boats is now common. The bone of contention, survivors of the fishing fights say, is fish catches or fishing gear or longstanding rivalry. Killings often occur during these battles, which often occur away from prying eyes. Here, intervention by law enforcement agents is simply impossible. In some cases such fights or killings go unreported. It is also on record that fishermen attack patrol boats in a quest to deny law enforcers chance to see their banned fishing gear. In such incidents lobbing spears or firing guns at each other is rife. This is chilling news but whatever the case; the East African states must eventually put the brakes on this mayhem. Some of the fishermen who flex their muscles in the frightening fights are illegal fishermen. These fight on many fronts for various reasons. Meanwhile, a recent survey has determined that 400 species of Lake Victoria fish have virtually vanished. The presence of illegal fishermen is the main canker. Some use dynamite to blast fish colonies or their breeding grounds ruining the ecological balance of the lake. The fishermen also use banned gear such as gill-nets, monofilaments, beach seines and others. These fishing gear have been banned mainly because they catch all sorts of fish including the young. Some fishers trap fish using Thionex or Thioden which are poisonous chemical compounds that are dangerous to human health. The medical world is aware that apart from being potential killers, Thionex and Theoden can also cause impotence in men. It would be remiss on our part not to mention here that illegal fishermen are greedy elements who, by selling fish that are laced with poison, commit felonies that smell to High Heaven. These are nefarious crimes that are committed with stone-hard insensitivity.