Finance and Planning Minister Dr Philip Mpango, speaking at the investment meeting for members of the East African states here recently, said the private sector needs to repay the loans timely to reduce the growing Non Performing Loans (NPL) in various financial institutions in the region. The meeting aimed at highlighting and discussing challenges that face the private sector in seeking loans from financial institutions in East Africa. He said apart from failure to repay loans by some members of the private sector, financial institutions, including commercial banks, have been acting unprofessionally in issuance of loans to their customers. “Some of the banks have been violating regulations and principles of loan provision, subjecting the institutions to serious problems in recovering the loans, increasing NPLs,” he said. Regarding the low rate of loans to the private sector in East Africa, the minister said the public should understand that there are challenges that emanate from international relations, leading to the decreasing export of goods that affects the private sector. Dr Mpango said the dwindling exports have weakened the private sector, leading to failure to repay the loans to financial institutions especially banks. He asked citizens within the EAC to get involved in all ongoing economic matters worldwide instead of confining themselves within the regional boundaries, complaining. He added that declining funding to the general budget from donor countries was also affecting the EAC economies, hinting that decreasing donor funds have compelled EA countries to seek loans from local banks for implementation of various development projects. “We have already discussed with members of the private sectors to see how we can clear this matter...the governments will do best to pay debts to enable investors manage loan repayments to financial institutions,” he said. Bank of Tanzania Governor Professor Florens Luoga said the private sector plays a key role in bringing about development in the country through established investments. “East African countries need strong investments through the private sector, this will influence banks and other financial institutions to give loans to investors, smoothly,” said Prof Luoga. He said in Tanzania, banks have already started to participate in the investment through private sector, adding that the central bank is currently engaged in discussion to see the possibility of increasing loans to the private sector. He said Tanzania has been convincing other East African countries to do the same for the betterment of the whole region. The meeting, which involved members from the East African nations, was attended by finance minister and central banks governors.