Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Ms Jenista Mhagama told the National Assembly that plans are going on well on the matter. Few months ago, the government temporarily stopped agencies from assisting Tanzanians to work abroad over what it claimed repeated reports of abuse and violence to its nationals working in foreign countries. But, addressing the lawmakers yesterday, the Minister who formed a special task to assess and examine the situation, said “We’re ready to tap into the long-untapped area.” “I suspended the service to assess whether the agencies meet the set by procedures. The Committee has submitted its report and it indicated that there Tanzania can gain a lot from remittances,” she said. There were no details as to how much the government will be targeting to receive after resuming the service, but the Minister said the study has identified the Middle East countries including Saudi Arabia and Qatar as among countries that need the service. “Until now, Saudi Arabia needs at least 2,000 workers. This includes those with small and medium skills,” she said detailing, “They also need doctors and pilots.” Her reaction was prompted by a supplementary question from Special Seats MP, Ms Halima Bulembo (CCM). The legislator said the country has failed to tap into its citizens working abroad. She said last year, India got 69bn US dollar. Another MP, Mgeni Kadika (Special Seats, CCM) warned that a number of migrants workings abroad were abused, detained and their phones and passports confiscated after being signed new employers. “This is done even where we have our ambassadors. Does it mean Tanzanian commissioners are not fully aware or it’s not their job,” she said. Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Deputy Minister, Dr Susan Kolimba said all embassies abroad are working in the interest of Tanzanians. She said the State adopted the Tanzania Employment Services Agency (Taesa) to help coordinate all employments abroad. She assured that the embassies have always been on alert to respond at the earliest possible time in the event that a Tanzanian working abroad is mistreated or denied his or her rights.