Yanga, who play their crucial match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam seek to use the home ground to the maximum advantage, taking it as a lesson learned from their disastrous CAF Champions League assignment against Township Rollers of Botswana. Yanga were eliminated after failing to use the home ground advantage, at the end they suffered a 1-2 home loss. They made exit after forcing a barren draw away in Gaborone ten days later. Yanga were relegated to the Confederation Cup after losing a ticket to play in the Champions League’s group stage. Almost similar fate facing other envoys; the National Under- 20 team, Ngorongoro Heroes and the National Senior Women team, Twiga Stars who also failed to appropriately use the home ground and shared spoils with DR Congo youth and Zambian Shepolopolo. The two draws means our envoys have uphill tasks in their return leg matches in Kinshasa and Lusaka a few days to come. Both teams must win by any margin to advance to the upper stages or else it will be a fruitless end for them. Of the two, Twiga Stars, who allowed their Zambian visitors to score vital away goals, seemed to be more troubled than their U-20 brothers who posted a scoreless with DRC Youth. The porous Twiga Stars need to play a game of their life to dump out Shepolopolo in the Women Africa Cup qualifiers after a 3-3 draw at home. Twiga Stars thrice failed to defend their lead allowing their opponent to pull level in all three goals they netted. They are now forced to fight extra hard in a return leg to be held on Sunday, 8 April 2018 at Nkoloma Stadium in Lusaka, if they want to advance and meet either Namibia or Zimbabwe for a place at the final tournament in Ghana later in 17 November. Our envoys should put into consideration that home ground slip doesn’t mean the end of the race, there is chance for them to win away if they have will and skill needed for the targeted goal. They should never be glued to a belief that away grounds are hostile to the visitors, they must go there confidently and fight and always those who fight hard succeed. All the best Yanga, Ngorongoro Heroes and Twiga Stars, we all rally behind you.