Ilala District Commissioner (DC) Sophia Mjema said this during the opening remarks of the first annual conference of Tanzania Association of Women Certified Accountants (TAWCA) held in Dar es Salaam, yesterday. The Ilala DC who was speaking on behalf of Vice- President, Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan, said that women should change their mindset and believe everything is possible to achieve the goal of Tanzania being an industrialised country. “Women accountants are ones who deal with the accounts of revenue and expenditure of government finance. They are responsible of ensuring money is used properly to boost the national income, I challenge them to perform their duties as one team to achieve their goals,” she said. He called on accountants women to broaden their minds and working as auditors to the international company in order to share and promote their knowledge and learning from other women accountants abroad. Founder and Chairperson of TAWCA, Ms Bahati Geuzye, said the main aim of the conference is to provide knowledge to women accountants across the country on how to overcome the challenges facing women especially in the financial sector. She added that the association also promotes those aspiring to become certified accountants and young girls to enrol in the accountancy profession and encourages them to explore their personal and professional ambitions. Deputy Minister of Energy, Ms Subira Mugabo, said that women accountants have a big role to play in ensuring public are paying their electricity bills in order to boost the national income. “We all know that women accountants are responsible in ensuring all money collected is used accordingly in order to meet the industrialisation policy target. Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) donated 10m/- to falicitate TAWCA annual conference. Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN), which publishes the government owned ‘Daily News’, ‘Sunday News’, ‘HabariLeo’ and ‘SportLeo’ were among the sponsors of TAWCA annual conference. Others are TANESCO and EWURA.