There was also no medical report to justify injuries, an indication of complete lack of evidence against the Ugandan government. Reading the judgment, Deputy Principal Judge Isaac Lenaola said the applicant’s case was weak and that there was no ground to conclude that the government of Uganda committed the acts as alleged nor were there violation of the Treaty for the Establishment of the East African Community (EAC) or laws of Uganda under its Constitution. The court further said among the evidence produced by the applicants through affidavits were for Mr James Aggrey Mwamu who brought electronic evidence and said that he was not there and didn’t know what happened and therefore his evidence was not authentic and reliable. Judge Leonola said the other three, Samuel Muguya, Francis Mwijukye and Ssemujju Nganda did not produce authentic evidence either. He noted that Nganda brought photocopies of newspaper articles, claiming that Dr Kiiza Besigye was arrested. Others claimed that they participated in the walk to work protest and that people were killed, some injured and teargased. The court in its view said that the evidence adduced before court would not make it determine that the events occurred and that the police and the military was correct and within the law, because they had to arrest the volatile situation. On allegations against the EAC Secretary General who was the second respondent, the court ruled that he did not have notice of the allegations made by the applicant prior to the filing of the reference. The court was therefore unable to find that he breached his obligations under Articles 29 and 71 of the Treaty. “We will not let Uganda go thinking all was okay,” Justice Lenaola read, adding that, had the court found sufficient evidence that the events occurred, had the applicant brought credible, authentic and reliable evidence, the court would have ruled against the Ugandan government. The court ordered each party to bare its own costs because EALS filed the case in the wider interest of the Rule of Law of the Community. The case was filed by the EALS against the Republic of Uganda and EAC Secretary General over alleged violent disruption of peaceful demonstrations in Uganda on April 11, 2011, as being in contravention of human rights. The applicant claimed that the acts were violating the Treaty for the Establishment of the EAC, in particular Articles 3, 4, 6(a), 7(2), 9, 10 and 11. That the second respondent was aware of the acts but did not take appropriate action under Article 29(1) and 71(1) (d) of the Treaty. The Judgment was read in presence of counsels Phillip Mwaka – the Principal State Attorney, Charity Nabaasa - Senior State Attorney and Goretti Arinaitwe who is a State Attorney; all representing the Attorney General of Uganda and Mr William Arnest for the applicant, with Michel Ndayikengurukiye the Principal Legal Officer of the EAC. The EACJ is one of the organs of the EAC established under Article 9 of the Treaty for the Establishment of the EAC. Established in November 2001, the Court’s major responsibility is to ensure adherence to the law in interpretation and application of and compliance with the EAC Treaty. Arusha remains the temporary seat of the court pending determination of the permanent seat by the regional Summit.