One such alternative is liquefied natural gas, more commonly referred to as LNG. LNG is, quite simply, natural gas that has been converted to liquid form in order to make it easier to transport and store. It is found deep underground, and burns far cleaner than coal, wood or charcoal. Though natural gas has been a viable fuel source for many years, it is only since the development of LNG and its associated technologies that it has become possible to transport vast quantities of gas overseas, allowing countries without their own reserves to take advantage of this comparatively plentiful energy option. In the last decade, vast reserves of natural gas have been found in Tanzania. So abundant are these underground reservoirs that exporting LNG could, within the next ten years or so, become Tanzania’s primary export. However, making this ambition a reality is no easy task. Here, we take a look at the reasons why this is the case. The Tanzania Gas and LNG Project (TGP) sees global oil and gas giants Shell, Statoil, ExxonMobil, Ophir andPavilion partnering with state-run Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) to develop sites, construct the appropriate facilities for both domestic market and for export, and position Tanzania as a viable hub for LNG. Just as important as extracting the gas itself is having the capacity to effectively process and distribute it, and so organising necessary infrastructure is absolutely essential. To develop the right environment for such an ambitious project to succeed, it’s vital that every party involved be fully aligned when it comes to setting objectives, and defining how they are to be achieved. There are a number of barriers – financial, contractual and logistical standing in the way of entirely smooth progression, but working together, and getting valuable input from all parties when it comes to key decisions, is ensuring those obstructions are kept to a minimum. Any large-scale project is going to be both costly and complicated, and the TGP is not an exception to this rule. Initial estimates suggest that the overall cost of the project will be approximately $30 billion, which is almost 10 times the cost of a Uganda Tanzania crude oil pipeline which estimated to be about $3.5 billion. To put that figure into some perspective, the overall GDP of Tanzania in 2016 is thought to have been around $47 billion. But, it isn’t just the financial side of the project that is complex. The location of the gas and the logistical difficulties associated with accessing it, are also significant hurdles that must be overcome. The vast majority of Tanzania’s gas reserves – roughly 87 per cent – are to be found deep under the Indian Ocean. Some of the sites are as far as 100km offshore, and some are in water that is up to 2,500m deep and 2,000m below seabed. Add into the mix the fact that the ocean floor in this region contains numerous canyon systems with steep rises in elevation, and you’ve got an incredibly challenging environment in which to work. To process and transport the gas successfully, innovative engineering solutions will be required. Though extracting natural gas from beneath the ocean has been done in various locations around the globe, each project is bespoke, and so requires its own solutions. While much of the technology required to obtain the gas exists already, it will need to be carefully calibrated and adapted to deal with the unusual terrain in this particular area. Never before has gas located at these water depths been developed to feed an LNG plant. Though supplies of gas are bountiful, Tanzania is in something of an LNG race. Neighbour Mozambique also has vast gas reserves, and is currently in the process of cultivating its own LNG infrastructure. Potential buyers of the LNG, such as those nations in the lucrative Asian market, will sign long-term contracts with their gas supplier, and so time is – to some degree - of the essence. However, despite this, it is absolutely vital that the entire project be carried out carefully and diligently. Given the intricate nature of the TGP, and with so much riding on the project’s successful completion, a meticulous and faultless approach is crucial. LNG is likely to be integral to Tanzania’s economy in the coming years. The growing global demand for it as a fuel source, coupled with Tanzania’s advantageous resources, should provide the perfect platform upon which to develop and expand the country’s economy. There is still a long way to go, but Tanzania is moving in the right direction