Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Major General Gaudence Milanzi said here yesterday that the updated national policy would help the state to reflect and cope with new development initiatives. He pointed out that such initiatives include Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “We initiated the process to review our forest policy as the current policy is too old. It fails to cope with many development initiatives,” said the PS at an event to receive the final draft of the National Forest Policy from the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations. FAO provided the government with technical support worth 280m/- to facilitate the review of National Forest Policy dating back to 1998. The government entered the agreement with FAO for technical support in February last year. Mr Milanzi expressed gratitude to FAO for the support, saying that it arrived timely when the country needs a new comprehensive policy to address forest issues. On his part, the FAO Representative in the country, Fred Kafeero, said the objective of the review was to ensure that the policy not only takes into account local issues, but also global issues of development concern. “FAO already supported many countries in similar areas. The support includes facilitating the engagement of multiple stakeholders including local and international development partners,” he said. According to Mr Kafeero, the year-long review process of the National Forest Policywas a participatory process that brought together key stakeholders to share their views and give inputs into the forestry policy. “It’s an opportunity to consider larger global issues that affect the forest sector at the international level including the SDGs and the Paris Climate Change Agreement,” he observed. Mr Kafeero noted that forestry was among the key mandates of FAO since it’s one of the key areas to address sustainable natural resources management, food security and nutrition as well as economic development.