“Once the assessment is completed, Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS) and Tanzania Rural and Urban Road Agency (TARURA) can rehabilitate the damaged infrastructure,” Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa directed here yesterday. He gave the directive in the national assembly while responding to a question by Nyang’hwale legislator Hussen Kassu (CCM), who had raised concern over poor state of roads in his constituency and other parts of the country due to damages by rains. Other Members of Parliament (MPs) have on separate occasions complained in the House that many parts of the country have been literally disconnected, with floods sweeping away roads and bridges. “The rains have caused loss of lives and damages to infrastructure on one hand but are also a blessing to farmers. Efforts are being taken to repair the damaged infrastructure,” Mr Majaliwa stated, adding: “It’s now up to the regional disaster committees to assess the magnitude of the damages on roads, bridges, public schools and private property for government to act on addressing the situation,” he said. In another development, Mr Majaliwa said the government is working round the clock to look for reliable domestic and export markets for farm produce as a result of bumper harvest during the last farming season. The premier gave the explanation when responding to a basic question by Special Seats MP (Chadema) Aida Kanani, who sought to know the government preparedness to secure reliable markets for farmers’ produce. “On Saturday, I will launch modern silos for storage of food crops and this will enable the country to have food security, after which the excess could be exported to neighbouring countries, which face food shortage,” he explained. The PM assured that the government will not have problem to allow farmers to sell processed food crops outside the country provided there is adequate supply, domestically. Mr Majaliwa said a special team has been formed to assess all privatised factories to identify the operational and dormant industries. After the assessment, the government will be in a position to find out the number of employees of the former state-owned factories who have not yet been paid their benefits.