The National Geohazard Monitoring Centre (NGMC) is responsible for researches on natural hazards like landslides, mudslides, erosions and volcanic activities in the country. The centre, according to COSTECH Director of Physical Sciences, Prof Mohammed Sheikh, will equally help in scientific researches to identify, assess and mitigate geohazards.In an interview with the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam, Prof Sheikh underscored the need for the centre, saying it will save lives of people lost when disasters strike. He cited the September 10, 2016 5.7 on Richter scale Kagera earthquake, the tremor that claimed 19 lives, injured several others, with majority of them rendered homeless. There has been widely circulated fear that Oldonyo Lengai mountain, the mountain of God in the Maasai Community in Arusha Region may soon erupt. But, with the new centre in place, according to Prof Sheikh, COSTECH was likely to mitigate the damages of the likely disasters. Recently, COSTECH drew over 50 scientists, including academics from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) and Ardhi University (ARU) for a two-day brainstorming session to discuss and look for solutions that can overcome the challenges caused by the disasters that have been occurring in the country. According to the Acting Director of the Disaster Management Department in the Prime Minister’s Office, Mr Bashiru Taratibu, the NGMC will help to collect data in managing disasters in the country. “This centre will facilitate disaster preparedness and we are glad that COSTECH is doing its job of conducting helpful scientific studies to the country,’’ he added. The centre will be more or less the same as the Norway based International Centre for Geohazards (ICGs), whose main objective is to serve as an international centre of expertise on basic and applied researches on geo-related natural hazards, geohazards, like landslides, earthquakes and tsunamis. However, the frameworks and methodologies developed for the assessment of hazards, vulnerability and risks may also be applied for other types of threats. The main aim of ICG is to develop knowledge that can help save lives and reduce damages to infrastructure and environment. It also aims at training graduate students and highly-qualified researchers from Norway and abroad.