Speaking during the working meeting of port stakeholders in Dar es Salaam yesterday, acting Assistant Director for Internal Trade and Marketing in the ministry of Industries, Trade and Investment Christopher Nassari assured business people from the East African region and entire world that the new system was in the offing. He was responding to concerns raised by business people who claimed that they were currently facing serious problems in clearing cargo at various ports, especially when visiting several government institutions like TPA, Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), among others. TPA signed an 18 million US dollars contract with Belgiumbased company, Phaeros group, in 2014 to install the eSWS in Tanzanian ports to fast track cargo clearance. The project completion was initially scheduled for December 2017, but was later delayed due to some issues. “However, eSWS will be completed any time soon and we look forward for paperless technology that will remove all the bottlenecks traders experience,’’ said Mr Nassari. Under the envisaged system, information processing and handling will be automated. The clearing agents, for instance, will no longer need to physically move with documents from one office to another for processing but will simply feed the necessary information in one computer connected to the system. At their meeting with the government institutions yesterday, stakeholders were optimistic that the effectively working eSWS will increase operational efficiency and lead to time saving through speedy imports and exports’ information sharing among stakeholders. Officials from TRA, TBS and TFDA were among the key stakeholders, with other attendees including port stakeholders— shipping and forwarding agencies as well as government institutions overseeing international trade. During the meeting, Tanzania Shipping Agents Association (TASAA) Executive Secretary Abel Ulomi and his Chairman, John Massawe raised eyebrows on the Tanzania Customs Integrated Systems (TANCIS), saying despite using electronic payment system, there were still unprecedented delays on cargo clearance at ports. “TRA should look on the efficiency of TANCIS because we are still moving with several invoices to several offices,’’ said Mr Ulomu, adding that there was need to have an eSWS to rescue traders from incurring unnecessary cost of doing business. A representative from the Dry Port Association of Tanzania (CIDAT), Ashraf Khan asked the government to allocate land for dry ports in all special economic zones to help business people ease congestion of cargo at the Dar es Salaam port. He advised investors and other businesspeople to capitalise on dry ports to ease clearance of cargo at the main ports.