In the application pending before Judge Isaya Arufani, the two members of the opposition party, Salum Dilunga and Paul Kabindo, are seeking court’s leave to file an application for mandamus to compel national party officials to call for and convene the National Delegates Conference. They are furthermore applying for orders requiring the party Chairman and Registered Trustees to hold meetings for the party’s organs and conduct statutory elections as required and provided for in the UDP Constitution. Judge Arufani is set to hear the application on April 25, at the High Court in Dar es Salaam. In the statement to support the application, the two members represented by advocate Frederick Jonathan have advanced some grounds, alleging that the party’s Chairman, Registered Trustees and Registrar of Political Parties, as respondents have failed to perform their public duty in accordance to the law. Salum Dilunga and Paul Kabindo, as applicants, stated that Article 8 of the UDP Constitution provided that the National Delegates Conference of the party shall meet twice in a term of five years and that all organs of the party shall meet at least once every year . According to the applicants, the party’s Chairman and Registered Trustees have the power and duty to convene such meetings and conduct the elections. Despite being asked by the party members, the two respondents have allegedly refused or ignored to exercise their obligations. The applicants further accuse the Registrar of Political Parties of failure to compel the two respondents to comply with the statutory requirement of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, the Political Parties Act and the Constitution of UDP. They state that the respondents’ failure or refusal to conduct elections, convene the National Delegates Conference and Party organs meetings was unreasonable in the sense that they have not given any reason for the failure and or refusal. In their joint affidavit to support the application, the two applicants state that during the period of their membership, they continued to be hardworking, inventive and very close participants of the party’s activities. They state that after witnessing and appreciating their contributions in the development of the party, the UDP Central Committee elected Paul Kabindo as Acting Youth Regional Secretary-Dar es Salaam. In May 2017, the two applicants state, the party’s Chairman and the Central Committee convened a National Delegates Conference in the city aimed at deliberating various party matters. However, it is alleged that the Conference was adjourned indefinitely as the Chairman got sick despite his deputy and other members were present. The applicants further stated that on November 2, 2017, Paul Kabondo and other members through the services of their advocates, Moriah Law Chambers, wrote a letter to the party’s Chairman to address the matter, but to their surprise, he allegedly ignored the same