TBL's Managing Director, Roberto Jarrin said innovation through technology and process optimization in agriculture communities is key to promoting economic growth. “We believe this event and the subsequent solution implementation will support our small holder farmers to operate and grow in a sustainable way,” he said in Dar es Salaam at a press conference. The event will gather over 100 participants namely agriculture experts, innovators, engineers and farming community with the intention of building awareness and finding innovative solutions in agriculture that can be utilized by smallholder farmers to increase their yield. Other organisers in the East Africa agri-innovation event scheduled for May 10th in Dar es Salaam are procurement team under the SmartBarley umbrella and the Solutions Africa innovation team as part of their global Hack the World Series of innovation events. Hack The World is AB InBev’s commitment to connecting with the most talented minds across the globe. The event will be supported by Vodacom Tanzania and hosted by Bits and Bytes Technology Convention. He said in East Africa, there are currently thousands of small holder barley and sorghum farmers in Tanzania and Uganda from which AB InBev through TBL and Nile Breweries Limited (NBL) procures thousands of metric tonnes (MT) of raw material annually. In some cases, there is unfortunately currently still an annual shortfall that has to be supplemented from other channels. By assisting farmers to implement good agricultural practices and to adopt new tools and techniques the farmer’s effectiveness, yield and income can be increased. “ This year we’ve partnered with AB InBev to focus on the agriculture sector and to innovate in order to increase the efficiency and respond to challenges, as we encourage better farming practices in East Africa. We look forward to implementing the right solutions to the challenges that we are facing”, Zuweina Farah, Co-Founder, Bits and Bytes Tech Convention concluded.