The Doha-bound drivers were presented with travelling documents by the Minister for Works, Employment, Women, Elders and Children, Ms Maudline Cyril Castico, at a brief ceremony held in Urban West region on Friday. The 73 drivers passed their practical and theory tests, out of 137 Zanzibaris who applied for the vacancies. The first batch was expected to jet off today, the final group due to fly out tomorrow. Handing over flight tickets to the drivers, Ms Castico said the drivers had succeeded to secure jobs in Qatar following an agreement reached between the revolutionary government of Zanzibar and Qatar about two years ago. “We went to Qatar in 2016 to explore different opportunities… we also enquired about potential job opportunities for our young people and they promised us at least 50 jobs,” she said. The minister noted that soliciting overseas jobs for Zanzibaris was among the government’s strategic measures to address unemployment among the youth. “The unemployment rate among youngsters in Zanzibar currently stands at 21 per cent and one of the strategies we have devised to address the challenge is the formalization of the informal sectors and engaging of employments agencies,” Ms Castico said. She commended the young drivers for excelling in their trials and challenged them to work hard and spend their incomes wisely. “You must save money for the families you are leaving behind and also make sure that you save enough money so that when you come back home you will have sufficient funds to invest for the future,” Ms Castico counseled the drivers. According to the Director of Employment in the Ministry of Works, Mr Ali Suleiman Ameir, the drivers’ deal to work in the Arab nation was made possible thanks to great collaboration between the ministry, Global Manpower Recruitment Agency and the Tanzanian Embassy in Qatar. Mr Ameir urged the drivers to execute their duties efficiently and maintain discipline in order to market the country’s workforce abroad. “You are going to be our first ambassadors abroad; if you perform your duties well, you will open the door for other youth from Zanzibar to secure jobs abroad, Therefore, you must maintain discipline and good work out there,” Mr Ameir told the drivers. The event coincided with the launching of a new programme dubbed ‘skill development and trade market’, which is envisaged to boost demand-driven skills development among Zanzibar youth.