The soon to be built houses will be strictly for low ranking police officers, because these are the ones who do all the work, but also live in squalid conditions,” the Head of State announced, shortly after witnessing military drills and demonstrations by members of the Police Force in Arusha Region. Speaking at the Sheikh Amri AbeidStadium where the event was held yesterday, Dr Magufuli instructed Members of Parliament (MPs) through their constituencies’ development funds, to pool into the new project which will ensure that policemen and women are housed in respectable homes. President Magufuli decided to introduce the new project of housing police officers after he inaugurated the 18 new police quarters that had just been built to replace the houses that were razed by fire late last year at the police barracks in Arusha. Dr Magufuli made a cash donation of 260 million/- to assist in the replacement and offsetting incurred losses, as well as in the construction of new living quarters for police officers’ families, whose houses went up in flames, late last year. In addition to President Magufuli’s contribution, the Police Force added another 40 million/- to the sum and completed the required amount of 300 million/- to build new houses for the fire victims. Alongside that, the Head of State inaugurated the first Tourism and Diplomatic Police Station in Arusha, a facility which will now handle all matters related to foreign tourists and expatriates living, working or visiting the country. The new centre will also serve as special security hub to deal with matters of concern regarding tourists’ encounters, threats and other problems faced when the visitors are sampling attractions within the Northern Zone circuit. As it happens, the Northern Zone is essentially the precinct that receives nearly 90 per cent of all foreign visitors touring the country per annum. “Previously, matters concerning tourists’ security, loss of baggage through theft, loss of passports and street attacks used to be taken care under a special desk which was operating under the Regional Police Commander (RPC)’s office at the Central Police Station,” the RPC, Mr Charles Mkumbo revealed earlier on during a preceding conference. He said they chose to establish a specialised police station which will handle all issues of tourists, diplomatic envoys, foreign expatriates and other visitors. It will be handled by special member of staff and police officers trained to take care of foreigners and foreign issues, linking directly with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Home Affairs and the Immigration Department.