Based on the local trail in December, 2016, aimed at ensuring safety and security of passengers and their property during the trips, the vehicle connection is a scientific devise that would definitely locate the vehicle/ driver with a software that collects the fleet data for the benefit of the vehicle owner, public and security purposes. In the system, the vehicle owners should be enlightened that it would be mostly for their benefit to know much about their vehicles as viewed on electronic maps via the Internet or specialized software. Large fleet vehicles should also see the essence of exploiting the technology as almost every company with a mobile asset will be at a position to modernize through it, instead of the old phoning system where some drivers can easily cheat on their location to make extra coins. The system should also be welcomed in business because it easily documents mileage traveled just with a few clicks of a mouse and can be easily hidden from the driver’s view, being permanently installed in the vehicle’s power supply, or used as portable monitoring devices, functioning off the GPS tracker’s internal battery source. Generally, it is good news in the industry because the system is now commonplace in the business worldwide to boost “asset management”, where the real-time technology allows businesses to receive alerts if a vehicle has been stolen, let alone cutting down on unauthorized trips and excessive vehicle idling. Automobile theft is a serious issue for anyone who owns a vehicle but for businesses the loss of a vehicle for even a day can bring operations to a halt. GPS trackers for trucks are one of the ways businesses of fighting back the menace, though because when a truck moving cargo is equipped with a live GPS that truck location information is always accessible. Therefore, if auto-theft strikes, the fleet manager can quickly determine vehicle location and provide the information to local police in order to safely bring the vehicle and its contents home safely. Professionally this is an area that is likely also to reduce unnecessary road accidents on the roads because the vehicle owner would know that his/her driver is over- speeding or violating traffic laws. What is necessary now is public enlightenment on its presence in the market.