This season the farmers will be enabled to plant new types of researched seeds which are expected to double production. The Tanzania Cotton Board (TCB) Director General, Marco Mtunga said here over the weekend during a cotton stakeholders meeting that the new seeds are set to increase cotton production from 135, 000 tonnes to 600,000 and possibly 800,000 tonnes a year. During the meeting which was Chaired by the Minster for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr Charles Mwijage, and his agriculture counterpart, Dr Charles Tizeba, among others aimed at increasing not only production, but also add value to the crop. Mr Mtunga said some of the strategies being adopted towards that end include adoption of contract farming and multiplication of UKM08, a new certified cotton seed which is expected to improve the quality of cotton lint. The meeting is attended by ginners, textile and garments manufacturers, cotton farmers and regional commissioners from the cotton growing regions. The stakeholders among other things wanted to know the challenges and thus set plans to face them in future. “We have come up with best cotton seeds, this season. Farmers will have a new one. We are sure the new seed will improve production,” said Mr Mtunga. He said farmers have been educated on the application of good Agricultural practices supported by adequate supply of quality inputs (seeds, insecticides, sprayers, fertilisers) that will raise cotton output in all 17 cotton growing regions. Mtunga said the government and donors have supported research at the Ukiriguru Agricultural Research Institute (UARI) to come up with the best seeds that could be used by cotton farmers. It has developed a number of new seed varieties - one of which - UKM08 is currently being multiplied. The UKM08 has a ginning outturn (GOT - lint as a share of seed cotton) of 42 percent compared to 34 per cent for UK91, the current major variety and a 25 percent higher yield. “As a sector, quality seed forms the basis of quality and high yields in cotton farming. “In order to ensure a sustainable revival process of quality cotton seed, the government has created an enabling environment for the private sector to invest in seed multiplication, processing and marketing of cotton seed for planting to farmers,” he said. Tanzania Cotton Board has been instructed by the government to ensure that all cotton farmers’ plant certified seeds come 2019. TCB is calling upon cotton farmers and buying agents to resist the urge to adulterate cotton otherwise they will face the full force of law through the mobile courts which helped to curb adulteration in the previous season leading to over 95 per cent germination of the current crop. Other efforts being undertaken as part of the revival process include sensitisation and training of key stakeholders”. Mr Mwijage told the stakeholders that effective this season, cotton will be sold through farmers union and cooperatives and those who will go against the order will face the law.