Bharti Airtel Limited posted a 77.8 per cent fall in fourth-quarter profit, as pricing pressure in the telecoms sector, after the entry of an upstart rival continued to hurt India’s top mobile carrier. This is its lowest ever quarterly profit in the January-March quarter. Profit came in at 829 million rupees ($12.49 million) in the quarter ended March 31, lower than 3.73 billion rupees a year earlier, the company said here Revenue fell 10.5 per cent to 196.34 billion rupees, hit by the telecom regulator’s decision to cut international termination charges. Its India business turned out to be a damp squib as it reported its first net loss in 15 years and joined Idea Cellular and Vodafone India in the red. But while India operations deteriorated, underlining local pressures, African operations across 14 countries, including Tanzania, continued to improve. "Airtel Africa's revenues grew by 10.7 per cent on a Y-o-Y basis. Data traffic grew 88 per cent, voice minutes increased by 37 per cent and Airtel Money throughput grew by 45 per cent on a Y-o-Y basis," said Managing Director and CEO for Africa, Raghunath Mandava. EBITDA margin expanded by 10.3 per cent Y-o-Y resulting in an EBITDA margin of 35.9 per cent. “We continue to focus on expanding our revenue base, underpinned by strong investments in networks and contain costs,” Mandava said. “Airtel’s net income from Africa operations largely helped offset the net loss that the company’s India business suffered in the March quarter. This helped Airtel report a consolidated net profit in the fiscal fourth quarter,” said Naveen Kulkarni of Phillip Capital. For Africa, revenue growth and superlative margin performance have been good, but low FY18 capex in Africa is a bit surprising which might need to move up in FY19. The Africa business was PAT positive, which helped tide Bharti over the net losses in the India business, JP Morgan analysts said in a note. Cost control initiatives as well as decoupling of low margin operations in Africa helped improve margins by 10 per cent over the past 12 months, Morgan Stanley said. The fourth quarter profit makes it the first full year of profits for Airtel’s African operations, a complete turnaround from previous years where the operations showed consistent and mounting losses.