It depicted one visually impaired person helping a similarly fated friend to cross a busy road in a major city. It implied that it was illogical for one sight-less person to seem to help another person similarly fated in such difficult circumstances. The barrage of criticisms compelled the newspaper to issue an impassioned apology, because the cartoon had cast people with visual impairment in very bad light. For in the country and elsewhere, much evidence abounds, that visual impairment is not synonymous with intellectual, or other forms of deficiency. On the contrary, many such individuals are very sharp people, sharpness that they demonstrate vividly, often to the amazement of sighted compatriots who are left agape. From a sightless tailor who earns a living through a craft that not many sighted individuals can easily grasp and practice efficiently, to a computer wizard, again a field into which some sighted people cannot proceed beyond toying around with social media sites, the constituency of visually challenged people hosts several resourceful people. Fourteen-year-old Ramadhan Idd is one of the latest cases on that score. He has no hands, but, setting determination on the forefront, he programmed his legs into tools for writing at a very tender age, a skill he had mastered by the time he enrolled in a nursery school. And lately, he went beyond passing the Standard Seven exams, by becoming among the handful who merited enrollment in institutions for gifted students, being specifically posted to Ilboru High School in Arusha. Save for challenges like lack of facilities like toilets tailored specifically for students in such conditions, which the management has pledged to address, he is coping, and certainly, only the sky is the limit. The sky is the limit, too, for many other Ramadhans out there, some of whom are victims of stereotypical notions, and aren’t helped to exploit their full potential. Initiatives to neutralize the notions should be stepped up, the clarion call being that physical disability is not synonymous with helplessness or failure in intellectual and other endeavours.