In November, 2016, the corresponding figure for similar earnings was 4.7tri/-. The increase in monetary receipts emanated from tourism promotion initiatives and consolidation of diplomatic relations. These efforts prompted the increased inflow of tourists who visited the nation’s celebrated tourist spots. This is wonderful news. Earnings from the tourism sector have remained bleak for many decades. It is hats off to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. However, it is imperative to point out here that more targets are yet to be hit. More effort should be made to ensure that the infrastructure used by visiting tourists is improved so they radiate a positive impression of the national tourist spots. The infrastructure includes roads, tracks, footpaths, stopover locations and others. The improvement should also take in a thorough clean-up, with the feeder roads getting a facelift. Tourists who travel through our national parks, game reserves, forest reserves and elsewhere should enjoy their experience in these locations and get value for their money. Roads that are impassable during rainy seasons should be improved to tarmac level. We cannot afford to disappoint visitors who contribute significantly to national economy. More than 44 per cent of Tanzania’s land area is covered with game reserves and national parks. There are 16 national parks, 29 game reserves, 40 controlled conservation areas and marine parks. Mount Kilimanjaro, the Roof of Africa, is also located in Tanzania. So, tourism, which should be a money spinner, is a crucial part of Tanzania’s economy, contributing about a quarter of the country’s foreign exchange revenue and supporting some half a million jobs directly, along with many more indirectly. The industry grew steadily at the start of the decade. Foreign visitor numbers rose from 783,000 in 2010 to 1.14m in 2014. Annual revenues grew from $1.2bn to $2bn over the same period. Comparatively, this trend remains slow to this day. It should be improved. But while we praise the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism for its quest to double the number of tourist arrivals we tend to forget the stark fact that the nation has too few hotel beds and other facilities. This shortfall must be addressed fully. During peak tourism seasons, especially between June and November, tourist hotel fill too full and the nation falls embarrassingly short of beds. Tanzania has about 15,000 beds in tourism facilities against a requirement of 1.6 million or more. The situation calls for a scramble to construct tourist hotels and other facilities if hefty targets are to be met. Kenya has more than 28,000 tourist beds on the Indian Ocean coastline alone. The city of Nairobi has more than 15,000