While that may pass as a normal leadership rotation at the continent’s top organ, there is something unique about his taking up of leadership at the union. The Rwandan leader led a team that came up with a raft of reform measures to revamp the continental body and boost its financial independence. Unfortunately, for years we have had African Union which was unable to respond to global events and promote growth and development in the continent due to among others, inability to implement decisions and inadequate funding, an overstuffed AU Commission, a weak Pan-African Parliament, lack of clear priorities and weak linkages between the AU and Regional Economic Communities. According to a report of the team that led the reforms process of the continental body, these challenges hindered progress at the African Union and resulted in a dysfunctional organisation in which member states see limited value, global partners find little credibility, and citizens have no trust. The team recommended African Union to focus on key priorities with continental scope; realign institutions to deliver continental priorities; manage the AU efficiently at both political and operational levels and to provide sustainable finance from resources within the continent. Now changes are on horizon. We see a new powerful African Union unfolding. Although the proposed changes may not take place in an overnight, we are excited, ready and committed to the cause to transform our union and foster prosperity. We are confident that President Kagame has all what it takes to transform the continent he is the architect of the reform process to make African Union more effective — and more self sufficient so it relies less on donors funding. We see integration process expedited to create a single continental market in order to promote inter-regional trade among businesses within the African region. We see more focus on infrastructure integration like planned construction of a section of standard gauge railway to link Isaka and Kigali. The launch of the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) which will provide a single aviation market to boost connectivity, reduce fares and stimulate economic growth is just the beginning of the new Africa we have been dreaming of.