The call was made yesterday by the Government Chief Pharmacist, Daudi Msasi, during the 4th admission and registration of pharmacists. About 80 pharmacists were certified by the Pharmacy Council at the ceremony that took place at the Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) head office in Dar es Salaam. He said since the government lays emphasis on creativity and innovation among the youth to bring changes in the working environment, it was upon the pharmacists to take the lead. “Like in other careers where professionals have been innovative and have started building industries, pharmacists must do the same to reduce the costs of importing drugs and medical equipment from abroad,” he said. Tanzania, according to Msasi, spends up to US dollars 500m every year to import medicines and other hospital facilities while it could minimise such costs by building local plants for producing medicines. “During the launch of the Mloganzila Hospital, I remember President John Magufuli challenged the health sector over spending millions of shillings in importing drugs and other medical stuff. We as pharmacists must take up such challenges by building factories to lessen the dependence on imported drugs,” Msasi explained. He appealed to pharmacists to adhere to their professional code of conducts in the performance of the duties. He was shocked at the presence of some qualified pharmacists who are forced or bribed by doctors to give patients wrong prescriptions. “Some doctors get deals from drug dealers who pushing the use of certain medicines into the market. Such doctors even recommend wrong medicines to patients just to satisfy the so-called dealers,” he claimed. “I do understand that among the challenges that pharmacists face is the supply of wrong medicines to patients. It’s true that doctors are the ones responsible in recommending what type of medicines the patients should get. Since you people are professionals you should refuse such wrong prescriptions,” he added. Meanwhile, the Pharmacists Board’s Registrar Elizabeth Shekalaghe urged the certified pharmacists to offer better services to patients so as to maintain the respect of their profession