Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr Charles Mwijage shared the emerging challenge mid this week at Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) office in Dar es Salaam, when he met a Minister from Yangzhou City (China), Mr Xie Zhengyi. THE cooperation between China and Tanzania in the area of agriculture is likely to enter a new stage, following confirmed reports that Vice-Minister of Agriculture from the Aisian nation, Dr Qu Dongyu, is expected in the country next week. According to the Tanzania Ambassador to China, Mr Mbelwa Kairuki, Mr Qu is expected to be in the country from January 25 to 28. The aim of the tour is to strengthen bilateral relations in agriculture between the two nations. While in the country, Dr Qu will hold talks with Minister for Agriculture, Dr Charles Tizeba and visit agricultural research centres. The tour of the vice-minister comes at a time when Tanzania is undertaking reforms in the agriculture sector, so that it contributes to an industrialisation drive. Reforms include mechanising the sector through the use of modern farming methodologies, farm machinery and improved seeds for increased productivity. Given the fact that China has up-to-date agricultural technologies with advanced research institutions, sharing the experience will uplift the sector that employs majority of Tanzanians. Boasting of its second largest economy in the world, China is one of the countries in the globe with advanced technologies in processing crops into other products, processes that add value to agricultural produce. The bilateral relations in agriculture between China and Tanzania started way back in 1970s, the cooperation that enabled Tanzania to start several agricultural projects including Mbarali rice farms in Mbeya Region, sugarcane plantation and sugar factory at Mahonda in Zanzibar and Ubungo Farm Implements. In recent years, China has been in the forefront in helping Tanzania improve its agriculture sector by establishing the Agriculture Demonstration Centre - Dakawa in Morogoro and training agricultural experts. China chose Tanzania to be in the list of ten African countries whose agricultural research centres are now cooperating with those in China in research works, in search for answers to challenges facing the sector, including breeding improved seeds. The second largest economy will in the near future open its market for cotton produced in Tanzania. China also granted special opportunity to Tanzania to supply dry cassava, the crop that is in high demand in the Aisian nation.