The RC was on official tour in various areas in the region to inspect the cultivation of both food and cash crops. She said many farmers in the region have been complaining of worms that affect their crops and that it is high time agriculture experts to come up with lasting solution to the problem. She said, currently there is outbreak of worms that affect crops in the field and that they have been spreading in various districts in the region. “This situation has posed a threat to farmers, we need to fight it as soon as possible,” he said. While at Shingita village in Usanda ward, Shinyanga District where the problem is rampant, the RC instructed extension officers to take quick measures to address the problem. She also queried why there was a delay in supplying insecticides to curb the problem and save farmers’ crops. A farmer at Bunonga Village in Mwamala Ward in Shinyanga district, Mr Isiaka Masele, said many villagers count losses due to the problem and asked the government to seriously intervene into the matter. “We have mobilised farmers to grow food crops, the response was good as you can see all these farms but we are facing a serious problem, we are therefore requesting the government to assist us,” he noted. Responding to RC, one of the agriculture experts, Mr Joshua Muro, said already they have made request to ministry of Agriculture but so far they have not received insecticides from the Ministry. He added that many shops in the region have enough insecticides, which cost between 3000/- and 5000/-. He mentioned the recommended insecticides as Duduba 45EC, Belt 480SC, Emamectin benzoate or Mupacron 50EC. He elaborated that the worms now have spread to several places in Tanzania. He said some of them were fall armyworm or spodoptera frugiperdo which originate from American Continent. He said the worms entered Africa through Nigeria in 2016. Mr Muro said until December 2017 more than 15 regions were already affected by Fall Armyworm which moves between 100 and 200 kilometres per day. An Agricultural Officer in RC’s office, Mr William Mng’ong’o, said that a total of 36,396.35 acres have been affected by worms like in the region. He said Kahama’s 1250 acres have been affected, Msalala 7280.45, Shinyanga Municipality 615.9, Shinyanga district 12,851, Kishapu 7818 and Ushetu 6581.