Its status as one of the fastest growing economies in East Africa and the continent, is a testament to the positive trajectory the economy is on. Maintaining this growth path necessitates the development of the right mix of highquality skills. The population growth rate of around 2.7 per cent means it is crucial, now more than ever, to develop relevant skills for our youth, to ensure their effective participation in national development. While the government is doing its fair share in improving the quality of education at all levels, corporates operating in the country have a pivotal role to play in strengthening vocational and technical training as a means to ensure that the country’s workforce is fully equipped to work in an industrialised Tanzanian economy. For the past two decades, Geita Gold Mine (GGM) has been working hard to develop a sustainable model for responsible investment in the extractive industrial sector. While we continue to look for ways to refine and improve this approach, we have been recognised by The Association of Tanzania Employers, which named GGM First- Runner Up in the private sector category at the 2017 Employer of the Year Awards. GGM recognizes that as a responsible corporate citizen, and one of the most important African investors in Tanzania, we have an obligation to the people of Tanzania, and especially to the communities that host our mining operations. It is for this reason that GGM’s value proposition not only benefits the company and its shareholders, but also extends to our local communities. As a private-sector player in the growing Tanzanian economy, GGM is fully committed to supporting the national economic development plans of the government to make Tanzania a middle-income country by 2025. We actively seek to empower young Tanzanians to participate in the country’s increasingly vibrant and competitive workforce, and more importantly, to build capacity that can help sustain Tanzania’s impressive growth and propel its industrialisation effort. Last week, GGM handed over the Magogo Industrial Complex Project to the government Authority in Geita Region. The project is one of the GGM initiatives introduced in 2015 to provide capacity building and skills to the youth and women focussing on, among others, Capacity welding and fabrication, brick making, tailoring, knitting and embroidery, as well as manufacture of leather products such as shoes and belts. GGM had been implementing the project in close collaboration with Geita Town and District Councils. The Magogo Project with all the necessary equipment and machinery has the potential to become a technical skill hub for the whole of Lake Zone region. Investing in post-secondary education and training– not only in four-year degrees, but community colleges, career and technical training, and apprenticeships–can put Tanzanians to work at an unprecedented rate and spur significant economic growth; all with the goal of realising the country’s bold industrialisation vision. Localisation and empowerment are two key priorities that GGM is working with the Government of Tanzania to achieve. GGM has already sponsored over 130 youth through the Apprentice Programme designed to support the professional development of young people from communities neighbouring the mine. The programme, about a decade old, seeks to enable trainees to attain the world-class skills from Geita Gold Mine Engineering Department, and benefit from employment at the facility if possible. The three-year, hands-on tenure is fully sponsored by GGM and after the training period, young Tanzanians are free to choose if they want to pursue further work with GGM or elsewhere. From a starting intake of eight apprentices, the programme has grown into an initiative perfectly aligned to the objectives of the government’s industrialisation drive, providing vocational training to Tanzanian youth, encouraging formal employment and entrepreneurship. GGM covers college fees, transport allowances, studying equipment, salaries and allowances for the students. Over 50 jobs have been created for the apprentices at GGM while others have been employed by other mining companies, other industrial sectors or have gone on into self-employment.This is an important and lasting legacy that will continue to grow as time goes on. But much still needs to be done. One of the key initiatives, as stipulated by the government’s five-year development plan, particularly for the mining sector, is training and skills development. The government will seek to increase the share of total employment in the sector from current levels of 1.1 per cent to 4.5 per cent in 2025; this will have to be done in conjunction with the private sector and GGM will continue to invest in its Apprenticeship Programme and other related initiatives to better equip young Tanzanians for their careers in the sector. Going forward, our vision for the future is precise: we will continue to develop Geita Gold Mine as a worldclass asset in Tanzania; making a significant contribution towards the country’s GDP and prioritising sustainable community development and job creation. We believe that strong partnerships between the government and investors, based on mutual trust and benefit, are the key to realising the vision of advancing Tanzania’s interests and propelling the country to middleincome economy. ● Simon Shayo is the Vice- President for Sustainability at Geita Gold Mine