This was said yesterday in Dar es Salaam by TFF Acting General Secretary Wilfred Kidao, who said days for clubs and people who indulge in such malpractices are numbered. “As the FDL heads into final destination of matches before getting three teams that will be promoted into the top flight league, there are many irregularities which occur as far as favouritism of teams is concerned, but as TFF, we are wide awake to contain such vices,” Kidao said. He further reminded referees who will officiate the remaining FDL encounters to be fair, while making their final decisions so as to avoid mistrust from the public. “ Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) will not hesitate to punish referees and those who will in one way or another spoil the league,” warned Kidao. Additionally, Kidao revealed that TFF has already submitted names of referees who will officiate the incoming FDL matches to security organs, where the games will be played for them to be thoroughly monitored and ensure that no corruption related cases are reported. He then urged referees and club leaders to cooperate well so that teams earn promotion into the Mainland Premier League on merits. Recently, TPLB Chief Executive Officer Boniface Wambura, disclosed that all the remaining FDL games will be recorded in a move he said will help the football body makes good decisions in case of irregularities. “We know that the FDL has many challenges and as the board, we want to deal with such shortfalls because in the end, we will be getting teams that will be trading in the Mainland Premier League, hence much attention must be directed to contain the vice,” Wambura said. He said the decision to record the games will help the board to make good final decisions, apart from relying on information supplied by referees, commissioners and others, who submit match report to the TPLB especially when the matter raised requires recorded pictures. Adding, Wambura said FDL has no official television broadcaster, hence all Television stations have access to broadcast the league matches. This comes few days after four referees were banned for three years, allegedly for poor officiating at two FDL matches. The match officials who have been banned are Andrew Shamba, Abdallah Mkomwa, Athuman Athuman and Omari Juma. The same punishment was imposed to the match Commissioner Mackshem Nzunda. The decision was reached by TFF’s 72 hour Committee that met in Dar es Salaam last Thursday. It followed an order by the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe, who demanded the TFF to act on complaints of favouritism raised by teams in the ongoing FDL. The minister expressed his dismay for what he called silence by TFF in dealing with the elements of favouritism and corruption that surfaced during two matches played two weeks ago - Dodoma FC versus Alliance of Mwanza at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma and the match that pitted Pamba FC of Mwanza and Biashara Musoma in Musoma. In his New Year’s message, Minister Mwakyembe demanded TFF to investigate incidents that happened during the two matches and complaints raised by teams, fans and journalists. And the TFF reacted promptly. Apart from imposing a ban on the match official, the committee has as well recommended the matter to be presented to the Prevention and Combatting of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) for further scrutiny and actions