Midfielder Hassan Dilunga netted the solitary goal, which saw Mtibwa Sugar post 24 points, one above fourth placed Singida United and three above Yanga. Following the victory, Mtibwa are now two points adrift league leaders Simba SC and second placed Azam FC. Simba and Azam are tied on 26 points at the summit but are separated on goal difference. Both Yanga and Singida United were on the sideline yesterday. Yanga will be in action against Mwadui FC at the National Stadium on Wednesday, while Singida United will face hosts and league leaders Simba SC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. Azam will travel to Songea to battle with Majimaji FC at the Majimaji Stadium. In the yesterday’s match, Mtibwa Sugar looked a side more likely to score as they kicked off on a high note. However, they had to wait until after 37th minute for Dilunga to score, racing clear to a high through ball inside the box. The former Yanga midfielder rounded off hapless goalkeeper, Agaton Anthony to slot the ball home. The goal was a wake up call for the hosts under Coach Selemani Matola, who battled hard in search of an equaliser, however, they failed to turn few chances they created into goals. Notable chance for Lipuli came in the dying minute of the game after the hosts were awarded an indirect kick at the edge of the box but Mtibwa’s goalkeeper, Benedicto Tinoco denied them an equaliser with a superb save. In other league matches yesterday, bottom placed Stand United emerged with a slim 1-0 victory over Ruvu Shooting at the CCM- Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga, with the hosts’ goal scored by their Burundian player Bigirimana Babikakuhe, two minutes after the kickoff of the second half of the match. Stand United victory saw them bagging ten points and move from the bottom position of table to the 14th place. Njombe Mji FC with eight points dropped bottom of the table, while Mwadui FC with nine points dropped to the 15th position. Despite the defeat, Ruvu Shooting are still settled in the 13th position with 11 points. The league action continues today with a Mbeya derby, where Tanzania Prisons will face their Mbeya compatriots Mbeya City at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya. Meanwhile, after unsatisfactory performance in the just ended Mapinduzi Cup tournament, Simba have travelled to Morogoro to pitch camp in readiness for their coming league game against Singida United on Thursday. According to reports, all players including those who were not present during the Mapinduzi Cup have joined the rest of the team in the camp. The players include Uganda’s international striker Emmanuel Okwi, goalkeepers Aishi Manula and Said Mohamed ‘Nduda’ who was nursing injuries and has yet to feature for his club since joining them from Mtibwa Sugar last year. On the other side defending champions, Yanga have also regrouped in Dar es Salaam, shaping up for their league match against Mwadui. Yanga will seek to keep their title campaign back on track after losing their last game 2-0 over Mbao FC in Mwanza. Yanga who were eliminated from the Mapinduzi Cup in the semifinal stage by Uganda’s URA kicked off their preparations yesterday at the Uhuru Stadium