The AU mission in Washington DC expressed its ‘shock, dismay and outrage’ and said the Trump administration misunderstood Africans. The US President reportedly referred to African nations as ‘shithole countries’, with many Africans from across the world accusing Mr Trump of racism and ignorance. Mr Trump has faced worldwide backlash since reports of the remarks surfaced. Yesterday, the 55-nations of the AU came out strongly to condemn the remarks, while a statement from ambassadors of all countries from the continent at the United Nations demanded a retraction and apology. The African Group of UN Ambassadors said it was "extremelyappalled at and strongly condemns the outrageous, racist and xenophobic remarks by the president of the United States of America (USA) as widely reported by the media.” The envoys unanimously agreed the resolution after an emergency session to weigh Mr Trump’s remarks. “The comment was ‘clearly’ racist, said Ms Ebba Kalondo, the AU spokeswoman for AU chief Moussa Faki. She added: “This is even more hurtful given the historical reality of just how many Africans arrived in the United States as slaves and also terribly surprising as the United States remains a massively positive example as just how migration can give birth to a nation.” In the same vein, the UN human rights office condemned Mr Trump comments as ‘racist’. A spokesman for the UN Office of the High Commissioner on Human Rights condemned President Trump for calling Haiti, El Salvador and African nations ‘shithole countries,’ saying “there’s no other word one can use but racist” to describe the remarks. On Thursday, during a bipartisan meeting on immigration reforms, specifically the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals programme, the US president reportedly referred to African countries as ‘shithole’ and asked why their citizens should be allowed to migrate to the US. The UN human rights spokesman Rupert Colville said Mr Trump’s comments were ‘shocking and shameful, according to media reports. “This isn’t just a story about vulgar language, it’s about opening the door to humanity’s worst side,” he said.