President John Pombe Magufuli once said he used mathematics to capture illegal fishermen in the Indian ocean near the Tanzanian coast. He said this when addressing delegates on Pi Day at the Tanzania Institute of Education (TIE) where he was invited to be the guest ofhonour. It is true that mathematics exists in all walks of life even in music. Businessmen and banks use mathematics in their transactions. They calculate interests, profits and losses. Because of the many application of mathematics, many people have been concerned about how the subject is taught in schools and colleges. Some problems have been found in the way some topics are taught in the classroom. The teachingenvironments have also contributed to poor performance in examinations. Actions have been taken in terms of conducting seminars to address the problems and a few projects have been run to take care of the pertinent problems. One of the earliest projects attempted in Tanzania was concerned with Modern Mathematics. This resulted from Russia’s ability to launch Sputnik 1 into space in 1957 ahead of United State of America (USA). This was thought of as something to do with the mathematics curriculum. Many countries decided to do something to improve their mathematics curricula. Tanzania tried the Modern Mathematics programs through the School Mathematics Project of East Africa (SMPEA) which originated from the Southampton Mathematics (SMP) of England and the Entebbe Mathematics program which was mainly American. Another project was conducted at Korogwe Teacher’s College in the nineties. It was called ‘Primary Mathematics Upgrading Programme (PMUP)’ which was funded by the Republic of Ireland. The project intended to promote mathematics teaching among female teachers included simple and friendly teaching methods in mathematics. The project was conducted when the Principle of the College later started a private teacher’s college which used some of the methods. The project also wrote textbooks intended for wider use at the end of the project. The intention was to make it sustainable. Unfortunately it was not. The most recent project is ‘Mathematics is Life (Hisabati ni Maisha)’-This project has been funded by the University of Alberta in Canada. CIDA has been searching for solutions to Tanzania’s mathematics problems and set aside a grant to facilitate University of Alberta to improve training of 430 mathematics teachers in Tanzania, benefitting about 13 thousand students. The problems stems from the history of mathematics in primary schools. In 2002 with the advent of the United Nation Millennium Development Goals, a large number of teachers had to be trained but mathematics teaching was always a challenge. Teaching Mathematics has been difficult because learners themselves, most of them were not very successful in mathematics. This is especially relevant in rural communities where teachers need to develop their own mathematics proficiency and strategies for teaching mathematics. The author of this article has been concerned about this outcry and has tried to support the international community to assist. Prof Joyce Mgombelo who has been a student of the author and a lecturer at the University of Dar Salaam has been very useful. Prof Mgombelo working at Brook University has combined with her study colleges at the University of Alberta in studying how universities can work with non-governmental organizations, the Government, schools and communities to enhance mathematics teaching. Professor Mgombelo has worked worked with John Parkins from the Faculty of Agricultural. Life and Environmental Science and Dr Andrew Binde of the University of Dodoma. The Hisabati ni Maisha project has involved four regions namely, Dodoma, Iringa, Singida and Morogoro. In Dodoma region 3 districts have been involved; Chamwino in Mvumi, Makang’wa and Msamilo Wards; Kongwa in Mlali, Mkoka and Pandambili Wards; Bahiin Kigwe, Ibihwa and Mundemu Wards. Morogoro districts involved are Mvomero in Sungaji, Hembeni na Mhonda; Gairo in Gairo, Kibedya and Chakwale and Kilosa District in Dumila, Kitete and Rudewa Wards. In Singida Region we have Manyoni Itigi, Solya and Kitinku Wards and Iramba District in Kisiriri, Mgongo and Mbelekese Wards. In Iringa, only Kilolo District, in Mahenge, Image and Ruaha Mbuyuni Wards have been involved. Benefitting from the project are 488 students, 108 facilitators, leaders who advocate learning mathematics in schools involving 44 villages, 216 school committees, 29 Ward Education coordinators, 12 Masters Degrees and 3 PhDs. Also there are those who benefit indirectly including 12,960 student teachers colleges and 35, 000 rural primary school pupils. Males and females have been divided equally in both cases. As the project progresses, Dr Binde has been educating the ‘Hisabati ni Maisha’ through Pi Day, Mathematical Association of Tanzania (MAT/CHAHITA) meetings and conferences. The project provided badges bearing the project title to delegates of MAT/CHAHITA who attended the Annual meeting in September, 2017 at the University of Dar es Salaam. You will hear more about it.