Butiama, a budding town in their locality, is commonly known in Tanzania. Butiama is a the birthplace of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the founder and first president of Tanzania. The town is an administrative centre of Butiama District. It lies within Mara Region. It is also the local residential area of the Wazanaki tribe which is believed to be the smallest tribe in the region. Former President Julius Nyerere (1922–1999), was a Zanaki and was the son the King Burito Nyerere (1860–1942), who was chief of the Zanaki, and of Christina Mgaya wa Nyang’ombe (1892-1997). In Zanakiland, mens’ names include Sinde, Mwega, Kenyeka, Matamwe, Nungu, Mgendi, Warioba, Mahuza, Kisika, Mahimbo, Magesa, Witare, Wandibha, Kyabhwasi, Mazira and Wambura. Women’s names include Wakuru, Wambura, Wanzota, Magori, Nyangi, Watiku, Wase, Nyakibhelo, Wakirya, Mkami, Yakahu and Muse. It will be readily noted there are male Wamburas and female Wambura. The name Wambura is given to a child who is born just when rain is coming down really hard. It is also the name of anyone born during the rainy season. The name Wakuru has something to do with tortoises which are common in Zanakiland. “Ikuru” means tortoise. So, some names are tied to those of animals, objects and others. Marriage is traditionally considered to be the most significant event in the lives of both men and women in Zanakiland. It is thought inappropriate for anyone to remain unmarried. Large families ensure adequate numbers of workers. The system of polygamy (multiple wives) guarantees that all people married. The significance of bride wealth is increasing, even among educated residents. Members of the groom’s family initiate a process of negotiation with the bride’s family that may unfold over many years. Negotiations can be intense, and for this reason a “go-between,” who is neutral to the interests of each family, is used. Most Wazanaki believe that divorce cannot occur after bride wealth has been exchanged and children are born. Even if separation happens, the couple is still ideally considered to be married. Failure to have children, however, is thought to be the fault of the bride and, for this, she will be divorced or replaced by another wife. Cattle are the primary item given in bride wealth. In determining the value of a prospective bride, her family takes into account her health, appearance, and, nowadays, her level of formal education. Failure of men to raise a high bride wealth prompts many of them to propose elopement, a practice that is on the rise today. Young people in Zanakiland still tend to marry within their own ethnic groups. Tribal elders frequently caution against “intertribal marriages.” The more distant the ethnic group in space and customs from the within, the greater the cautionary warnings. In the past the Wazanaki wore minimal clothing. Animal hides were used to cover private parts, but there was no stigma (shame) associated with nudity. Nowadays, clothing styles are largely Western in origin. They vary according to a person’s social class and lifestyle preferences. It is not uncommon to see people in remote rural areas fashionably dressed according to some of the latest tastes. The Wazanaki who live in cities tend to wear clothing that is cosmopolitan by rural standards and similar to the clothing worn in New York or Paris. In rural areas, most people dress according to their work routines. For example, women wear loose-fitting dresses made of solid or printed cotton fabric while farming or attending market. Wearing sandals or going barefoot are typical while working. Men wear jeans as work pants while farming. During the rainy season, the roads can become very muddy; consequently, boots and umbrellas are especially prized by both men and women. These days, there is a strong market in secondhand clothing, making slacks, dresses, coats, undergarments, sweaters, shoes, handbags, belts, and other items available to even poorer Wazanaki families. These people enjoy dressing up for funerals and weddings and are considered throughout East Africa to be fashionable. The Wazanaki are proud of their disciplined upbringing. The ability to keep control of one’s temper and emotions in public is highly valued. Young men and women are not supposed to show mutual affection in public in daylight, although this rule is often broken in urban centers. Boys and men, however, are commonly seen in public holding hands as a sign of friendship. In Zanakiland women are not supposed to smoke, talk in a raised voice, or cross their legs while sitting or standing. Traditionally, elders are honored and respected by the rest of the community, although youths are increasingly challenging such customs as arranged marriages. Although the use of silverware is increasing, traditional customs prescribe eating all foods, including rice and meat sauces, with the right hand. Children who attempt to eat with their left hands are disciplined appropriately at very early ages. This custom is related to the perceived symbolic purity of the right hand, compared to the left hand which is often used for cleaning after using the toilet. Primary crops in Zanakiland are maize, millet, and sorghum. Coffee, tobacco, cotton, and sugarcane are important cash crops. Important animals include sheep, goats, chickens, and cattle, which are used for bride wealth. Fish from Lake Victoria and its streams are important, especially tilapia. Many foods are purchased, including sugar, bread, and butter, which are consumed with tea on a daily basis, a custom known as “tea time” and derived from the British colonial era, which ended in 1961. The staple food eaten several times a day is ugali. This is made from maize meal stirred in boiling water until it becomes a thick and smooth porridge. Ugali is always eaten with an accompaniment such as meat or stew. The ethno-linguistic group of people called the Wazanaki is most commonly said to have its origins in western Cameroon, although how it’s possible to be so certain over migrations that date back over four millennia. What is certain is that, these People, whose tribal territory is called Zanaki, came from Central Africa, from where their culture began expanding to other parts of sub- Saharan Africa around 2000 BC. The cause of these migrations are believed to have been the result of an increasingly settled agricultural lifestyle: although needing little land (far less than herding cattle would). Land had to be fertile and well-watered for cultivation to be a viable alternative. Population pressure in Central Africa may therefore have prompted the first migrations. Several successive waves of migrations over the following millennia followed on the tracks of the first. They were neither planned nor instantaneous, put took place gradually over hundreds and thousands of years, allowing plenty of time for these people and their culture to spread and be influenced by other cultures it came across, either through assimilation or - more rarely, it seems - conquest. Traditionally, music was the most widely practiced art in their community. At any time of the day or night, some music was being made. But music was not made for its own sake. Music was functional. It was used for ceremonial, religious, political, or incidental purposes. Music was performed during funerals, to praise the departed, to console the bereaved, to keep people awake at night, to express pain and agony, and was also used during cleansing and chasing away of evil spirits. Music was also played during ceremonies like beer parties ,welcoming back the warriors from a war, during a wrestling match, during courtship, etc. Work songs also existed. These were performed both during communal work like building, weeding, etc. and individual work like pounding of cereals, or winnowing. Music was also used for ritual purposes like chasing away evil spirits who visit the village at night, in rain making, and during divinations and healing. Their music was shaped by the total way of life, lifestyles, and life patterns of individuals of this community. Because of that, the music had characteristics which distinguished it from the music of other communities. This can be seen, heard, and felt in their melodies, rhythms, mode of presentation and dancing styles, movements, and formations. The melodies in their music were lyrical, with a lot of vocal ornamentations. These ornaments came out clearly, especially when the music carried an important message. Their rhythms were characterized by a lot of syncopation and acrusic beginning. These songs were usually presented in solo-response style, although some were solo performances. The most common forms of solo performances were chants. These chants were recitatives with irregular rhythms and phrases, which carried serious messages. Another unique characteristic in their music is the introduction of yet another chant at the middle of a musical performance. The singing stops, the pitch of the musical instruments go down and the dance becomes less vigorous as an individual takes up the performance is self praise