According to a statement released yesterday by the State House Director of Communication, Mr Gerson Msigwa, the Head of State gave the instructions to the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Secretary of Ideology and Publicity, Mr Humphrey Polepole. Mr Polepole said the Head of State is not interested and has no intention whatsoever to extend Presidential term in the whole period of his presidency. According to the statement, Dr Magufuli told Mr Polepole to tell CCM members and the public at large that he has been saddened by the ongoing debate on Presidential term limit. The Head of State asked Tanzanians to ignore the debate and focus on important issues. He said the matter had never been discussed in the party’s meetings and that it was against both the CCM and United Republic of Tanzania’s constitutions. The statement added that President Magufuli asked Mr Polepole to urge Tanzanians to shun unimportant issues and instead focus on developing the economy. He added that CCM members and Tanzanians in general should continue to build the economy and implement the party’s 2015 election manifesto. Last year, Chemba legislator (CCM) Juma Nkamia said he wanted the presidential term to be extended to seven from five years. He said he was preparing a private motion on the issue which he intended to table in Parliament. A letter, purportedly from the Parliament, showed that Mr Nkamia had alreadynotified the Parliament office of his intention. Mr Nkamia said his idea was supported by the fact that five years were not enough for a national leader to roll out meaningful plans. He gave example of Rwanda whose presidential term limit is seven years. In October, 2017, Mr Pius Msekwa, a former Speaker of Parliament and Vice-Chairman of CCM, was quoted on local TV station saying the party had previously discussed the idea of extending term limits and rejected it and he believed if the matter is risen today, the party will do so again. As stipulated in Section 42 of the Constitution on the Presidential term limit, it gives clarification on the life of the Parliament, which is five years. Section 65 (1) of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania of 1977 states that “Subject to the other provisions of this Constitution, the life of each Parliament shall be five years. The Constitution explains that the expression ‘life of Parliament’ means that whole period commencing from the date the new Parliament was first summoned after General Elections and ending on the date of dissolution of that Parliament for the purpose of enabling the holding of an election. Tanzania is well known as one of sub-Saharan Africa’s most stable democracies. It has held five relatively peaceful multi-party elections since 1995. Dr Magufuli was elected in October 2015 for his first term, if he seeks re-election in 2020 and wins election, he will be able to lead the country for another five-year term until 2025. He will be ineligible to contest the vote in 2025. President Magufuli’s rebuff to the attempt to extend rule beyond the constitutional limit of two, five-year terms, adds credit to the leadership succession culture. In 1985 former President, Ali Hassan Mwinyi succeeded the Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere who led the country from 1961 to 1985, when he voluntarily handed the power to him. Mzee Mwinyi was succeeded by President Benjamin Mkapa in 1995 after leading the country for 10 years. In 2005, Mzee Mkapa passed the power to former President Jakaya Kikwete who also handed it to the current fifth President, Dr Magufuli after winning the 2015 general elections.