This was revealed yesterday by the TFF Acting General Secretary, Wilfred Kidao, saying the federation will provide all necessary support to PCCB to facilitate smooth investigation and legal actions taken against offenders, if any. TFF announcement comes hardly a day after the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe, has ordered the federation to act on complaints of favouritism raised by teams in the ongoing FDL matches. The minister expressed his dismay for what he called silence by TFF in dealing with the elements of favouritism and corruption that surfaced during two matches played last Saturday - Dodoma FC versus Alliance of Mwanza at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma and the match that pitted Pamba FC of Mwanza and Biashara Musoma in Musoma. In his New Year’s message, minister Mwakyembe demanded TFF to investigate incidents that happened during the two matches and complaints raised by teams, fans and journalists. “TFF should act now by investigating what happened during these matches and take proper action(s) against any elements of un-sportsmanship and corruption,” he said. “Tanzanians want to know the truth on four red cards shown to players of one team, they want to know if the game between Dodoma and Alliance was played within proper regulation time,” he said, adding that Tanzanians also wants to know if it was true members of the media were restrained from conducting their job. “We want to know whether it is true or not that journalists were blocked from covering the two matches and if it is true, who blocked them and why,” queried the minister. Minister Mwakyembe also said that match commissars’ reports must be made public for all Tanzanians to know what happened and he questioned whether it was right for TFF to continue having the 72 hour Committee. Minister Mwakyembe said the government has no intention to interfere running of football matters, but insisted it will not be right for the ministry to remain quiet in matters of favouritism and corruption in sports. “If we have poor system in running our lower division leagues, we should not expect to have a strong and competitive Mainland Premier League,” said Mwakyembe. He said it was not a sin to pray for the Capital Dodoma to have a team in the top flight football, but said it was not right for leaders to favour any team to earn promotion to the top division league. The match between Coastal Union of Tanzania and Biashara Musoma also raised an eyelid. Responding to this, Kidao said TFF had already started taking action on the matter by consulting the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) Chief Executive, Boniface Wambura as well as various other officials who were in charge of the matches in question. Kidao said after gathering various reports, he submitted them to the TFF president, Wallace Karia, who also ordered the federation’s 72 Hour Committee to convene immediately to deliberate on the saga. He said the committee was due to meet in Dar es Salaam today. “I had also consulted the National Sports Council (NSC) Secretary General, Mohammed Kiganja and Director of Sports in the Ministry, Yusuph Singo on the matter,” said Kidao. He distanced the federation’s top brass from any involvement of favouring teams from the regions of their origins. In fact, he said, according to the institutional framework, TFF was not directly involved in running league matters. Kidao said the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) was in charge of running and supervising of all leagues - Mainland Premier League, FDL and Second Division League (SDL).