In his new year address to members of the Secretariat Staff here, as the Community opens shop for 2018, the EAC Secretary General (SG), Ambassador Liberat Mfumukeko, expressed concern that the six partner states do not seem to take seriously matters of pooling resources to run the community. “I was touched that staff could use their own resources to travel and support EAC activities for reimbursement when funds become available. This is a show of not only commitment and passion, but also maturity and desire to contribute to the integration process,” said Amb. Mfumukeko. The SG pointed out that because of the workers’ dedication, most activities were implemented uninterrupted and as scheduled despite lack of funds. “We shall work together to ensure there are enough resources to run the affairs of the community. The reality of the matter is that partner states are slow in disbursing their commitmentsas at the end of December, only 40 per cent had been disbursed, this calls for serious prioritising of the available resources and ensure critical activities are implemented,” Mr Mfumukeko maintained. “We also need to avoid wastage at all costs. I want to refer you back to the circular of May 2016, where it was directed that all meetings should start on Tuesdays and should not last for more than four days,” the EAC-SG added, reminding the community staff that tough times call for tough measures. “I am sure we can still achieve a lot, with the resources available. This forthcoming Presidential Summit will be addressing the issue of alternative financing mechanisms and I can assure you that a lasting solution will be found,” he said. But despite being cash constrained, the SG stated that there have been notable achievements in 2017, notwithstanding all the challenges. Under the Directorate of Customs, our main priority was to attain the full roll-out of intra-trade and imports regime under the Single Customs Territory. “To that end, a number of achievements were recorded in 2017. Most important was the operationalisation of ten ‘One- Stop-Border Posts,’ three of which were officially launched, the most recent being the official launch of the Mutukula One Stop Border Post (OSBP) located on the Uganda and Tanzania border in November, last year, after the Holili, Taveta and Rusumo.