Given the occurrence of such incidents in the country and elsewhere in the world, local and foreign experts in psychology have tried to explain the reasons behind such tragic incidents, but clearly stating that epilepsy related problems, psychological (depression), environmental and generic factors are to blame. An expert from the Psychiatry and Mental Health Department at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), Dr Frank Masao, spoke to the ‘Sunday News,’ saying some individuals commit such crimes after being struck by epilepsy. According to the mental health expert, anyone can develop the mental problem. Health experts define epilepsy as a central nervous system (neurological) disorder in which brain activity becomes abnormal, causing seizures or periods of unusual behaviour, sensations and sometimes loss of awareness. Dr Masao recalls an incident that occurred some years back at MNH whereby a patient admitted to the psychiatric unit woke up during midnight and killed five patients, injuring others. However, Dr Masao is quick to warn that not all types of epilepsy can push an individual to commit such incidents. According to the expert, sometimes epilepsy can result in malfunctioning of the brain and some nerves. “It is this kind of epilepsy which sometimes directs the victim to go to a farm during mid-night, till the land for a while and come back while still unconscious,” affirmed Dr Masao. Linking homicide or murder with psychological factor (depression), Dr Masao gives an example of a couple that spends years in a marriage without getting a child. “A man can live with a partner for years without having a baby. When his wife conceives, the husband becomes worried whether he is the real person responsible for the pregnancy. When the child is born, the man may continue holding the grudge without going for DNA test. In case any conflict arises in the family, the man may resort to either killing his wife or kid or commit suicide,” he says. According to the psychologist, a woman who feels thather husband cheats may develop an internal conflict which may result in depression. He says such a state of mind may lead to committing murder or suicide, if quick intervention measures are not taken. “Sometimes, the situation may be worse when a woman with young children decides to kill them before killing herself, just after either feeling or establishing that her husband cheats on her, on assumption that no one may take care of the kids after her death,” he says. The mental health expert explains that separation of partners, by either death or abandonment, among other reasons, may also trigger depression, prompting a person to think he/she is of no value to continue leading a lonely life. Speaking on environmental factor, Dr Masao said unexpected bad events that happen on one’s life at various places may also force an individual to take appalling and shocking decisions. Giving examples, the expert says being rendered jobless for any reason may push a person to feel he/she has hit a dead end. “There are cases whereby people take their lives after losing jobs. This happens because such a situation plunges them into severe depression,” he says. According to the mental health expert, there are times when some people regret having either failing to achieve something in life or committing something bad that brings shame to them. “There have been cases whereby some retired people decided to take their own lives after noticing that they can’t start a new life after remembering the way they spent all income carelessly, mostly on luxuries,” he added. Dr Masao also spoke on generic factor, explaining that sometimes victims do experience what is called hallucinations. He says under this condition, the person hears nonactual voices which direct him/her to do something wrong.