The apex body of business associations of the private sector and corporates from the six East African Community (EAC) countries appointed individuals who command in-depth understanding of the EAC integration processes, the business dynamics of the region as well as the role that the private sector can play in shaping the development of the region. EABC Communication PR Advocacy Officer, Mr Patrick Moshi mentioned the members as Mr Godfrey Simbeye, Executive Director, Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF); Ms Consolata Ndayishimiye, the former chairperson of EABC, who is a leading business person in Burundi and Patrick Obath, Associate Director, Adam Smith International Africa Limited and business leader in Kenya. Others in the panel are Mr Faustin Mbundu, former chairperson of EABC, former chair of Private Sector Federation (PSF) Rwanda, Chairman MFK Group and leading business person in Rwanda; Mr Moses Ogwal Goli, Director of Policy, Private Sector Foundation, Uganda and Ms Jennifer Gache, Senior Industrial Engineer, East African Community Secretariat. Mr Moshi quoted the EABC Executive Director, Ms Lilian Awinja as saying that in order to ensure objectivity, transparency and accuracy in the judging process, EABC would work with PriceWaterhouseCoopers as audit partners whose mandate will be to review the end to end process of the BEAs. The EABC Business Excellence Awards process commenced on January 10 this year and will run until 7th February. The judging and verification process will run from 8th February to 7th March, 2018. Each category will have three finalists, who will be announced on Monday 12th March, 2018. The ultimate winners will be feted at a Gala Dinner scheduled for 23rd March, 2018 at the Hotel Intercontinental, Nairobi. Winners will receive a trophy and certificate of recognition in addition to earning the ultimate accolade of business excellence among peers in the East African region. The inaugural EABC Business Excellence Awards will be organised across three categories, the first will see one company feted as the Overall East African Regional Company. A second category of awards will recognise business that have excelled in cross cutting categories, namely Manufacturing, Services, SME, Woman owned enterprise, Green Economy, Innovation and Corporate Social Responsibility