The annual IBB Ladies Open is scheduled to tee off from February 8 to 11 this year at the International Golf and Country Club in the Nigerian capital, Abuja. Tanzanian golfers have been invited by their Nigerian counterparts to take part in the international level event after they were impressed by their stellar performance in the Uganda Ladies Open Championship last year. The Lugalo Club Chairman, Michael Luwongo said he had promised to support the ladies in their campaign to win global level tournaments that includes taking part in the Nigerian event. But he told the ‘Daily News’ in the city yesterday that his club is yet to secure sponsors for the next month event. Luwongo said that they have already submitted sponsorship requests to sports well-wishers, but none of them has positively responded. “We have a budget of about 13m/- that will cover return tickets and all expenses for five players and official picked for the Nigerian trip. “We are asking companies, institutions individuals and sports well-wishers to come forward and support us,” he said. Luwongo said that Lugalo Club has a wonderful team of lady golfers capable of winning the title in Abuja just as they did in Uganda, only a support will enable them reach that target. “The door is open for other sponsors to come forward and assist the club and the ladies golfers so that they can have effective preparation ahead of the international class event,” he added. The 2017 Uganda Ladies Open championship saw Angel Eaton who represented Lugalo Golf Club, emerging the champion while Madina Iddi from Arusha Gymkhana Club (AGC) finished third overall. Others are Lugalo-based golfers; Hawa Wanyeche, Ayne Magombe and Tayana William. Hawa emerged the second day winner of the second 18- hole award a position that earned her a challenge award and bronze Division title respectively. He said all players have already started preparations for the event since the end of the last year. Keen to travel to Nigeria, Eaton and Wanyeche said they intend to conquer the IBB Ladies Open as they have already started a serious training for it. But Luwongo said there are hopes that sponsors will come to rescue the mission as Lugalo and TPDF cannot do it alone.