It is better, indeed, for people to be criticized over shortcomings in an original product upon which improvements or adjustments can be made, than copy or imitate something wholesale. It is more disgusting if, or when, at the climax of the shameful mischief, those responsible pass off the productions or outcomes as manifestations of their creativity. That trend is powerfully captured by the advanced technology-derived expression ‘copy-and-paste’, with which no self-respecting person would wish to be associated. For it denotes virtual helplessness on an individual’s part in terms of originality, who, out of desperation, literally steals other people’s creative pursuits and assigns them to oneself. Matters are rendered worse when even the essentially plain-sailing method of copying and pasting is done crudely as to be rendered near-meaningless and even laughable. The broad Tanzanian heritage boasts of rich technical as well as literary creativity. This is personified, for instance, by tools like hoes, spears, machetes, as well as pottery, which enabled people dating back many centuries, to lead resourceful lives. Over the ages, too, our country has boasted quite many designs of traditional houses, exemplary fairy tale narrators, sports individuals in games like wresting and architects who came up with impressive housing designs. As society advances, and more-so now, within the context of Tanzania being a unit within the fancifully styled global village, various societies pick lessons and borrow from one another to perfect their own productions. This, however, must be done creatively to achieve the desired results; else, embarrassment sets in. On the movie industry for instance, this country has made considerable strides. It is however being cast into disrepute by young people who have literally invaded it in pursuit of the proverbial quick buck. Much concern has been expressed – through social media sites, for instance – about some bongo movies manifesting poor scripts, amateurish story lines, half-baked actors, and other shortcomings. The patriotism-driven argument that we can, and should have home-grown movies, the way, say, Nigerians do, is valid but only up to a point. Quality is what ultimately counts., as applies to music and sports for instance, in which what earns hearts is quality, beyond Tanzanian-ness, and attendant patriotism.