Speaking during an official launch of the campaign which started about two weeks ago in Singida Rural and Iramba districts, the DC said local government leaders and teachers need to play a big role by supporting health officers and Volunteer Community Advocates (VCAs) to fulfil their duties effectively. The DC was speaking at Ilongelo Ward in Singida Rural District. VMMC services for HIV prevention are offered free of charge in Singida Region with the support from the US President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) under the AIDS Free Project. The DC said the government through the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elders and Children is part of the ongoing campaign and that ‘wananchi’ should utilise the opportunity effectively. “This service is being offered free, it is the right opportunity for us to bring our children who are aged 10 years and above for this service. Even those above 29 years who unfortunately did not manage to undergo circumcision are also invited to get the service for free,” he said. However, some medical officers raised concern on poor support from some local government leaders and teachers in the area. A clinical officer at Ilongelo Health Centre, Mr Maduhu Mabula, said headteachers have been reluctant to allow them to conduct circumcision on students. “It has been challenging, we always inform village executive officers as well as headteachers when we want to conduct an exercise in their areas, but when we go there the following day, headteachers deny us access to rooms or conducting the exercise in the school compound,” he said. He added: “Village executive officers also have been reluctant in supporting the exercise,” The DC ordered all leaders in the area to support the campaign and cooperate with health officers, saying the campaign has all blessings from the government. “Apart from supporting this campaign, the government is part and parcel of it, we are happy to see our people getting this service for free,” he said. The DC urged ‘wananchi’ to abandon myths and avoid spreading false information on the ongoing circumcision campaign in the area. He said some people believe when a boy or man is circumcised, he becomes sexually powerless. According to the DC, other people have been spreading rumours that when someone is not circumcised in June, his wound will never heal. The DC assured the public that the ongoing circumcision is being conducted by following all medical procedures and that health officials ensure safety and early healing. Earlier, the Acting Singida District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr Daniel Shai, said male circumcision help to protect them from getting HIV/Aids by 60 per cent and protect their wives and lovers from cervical cancer.