An administrator by profession, Mzee Kiishweko had a huge number of friends and was well known for his calm and pleasant disposition in places where he worked. His commitment to a strict work ethos was one of the elements admirers noticed about him. Much is remembered about the fact that Mzee Kiishweko’s firm belief in the role of local government in bringing about national development was founded on his decades of experience of having served in that sphere both before the country attained independence and after. He was among the generation of Tanzanian civil servants who took over technical workings of local government from the British into their own hands. In numerous conversation with him before his demise, one of his children, Atugonza Kiishweko, says that he believed that the existence of both the central government and the local government is unavoidable and viewed that as one way of society organizing itself to confront the challenges that exist. “The central government has its role and the local government has its role. The central government is the head and the local government is closer in communities where they operate from,” he used to say Born on 1/4/1930 in Kishao village, Karagwe District, Emmanuel Kiishweko’s father was Abraham Kiishweko Ntunda Michamo, a courageous business man at the time who also traversed the Lake Province, taking advantage of the trade knowledge he learnt from each place he visited amid his trade errands. Family documents show that at the time, Emmanuel Kiishweko was baptized at the Lutheran church, LukajangeDistrict of Karagwe. He went to school at Native Authority School at Nyakahanga and concluded his class four in the year 1942. From there, he was selected to join class five in 1943 at Nyakato secondary school. In 1948, he completed secondary school. In 1945, he was chosen to join Dar es Salaam Clerical school where he graduated in 1949. His first job was in 1950 where he was employed by the Tanganyika government in the Chief Secretary Office in Dar es Salaam.After five months, he was moved to the Office of the Provincial Commissioner in Tabora. Subsequently, he moved to offices of provincial commissioner in districts such as Kigoma, Mpanda and Kasulu as a Chief Clerk. In 1959, he was moved to the Governor’s office in Dar es salaam.In 1962, he was granted further studies in England in Taquay Institute where he graduated with a diploma in administration. Soon after his studies in England, he was moved to the ministry of local government and he worked as a town clerk for a number of districts across the country. Some of them included Tabora, Tanga, Dodoma and Bukoba. In 1967, he was moved to the Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) as the administrative officer for all national parks in the country. At the time, the country’s founding President, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere had recognized wildlife as an integral part of the country’s wellbeing. According to the TANAPA website, over fifty years ago the first President of the United Republic of Tanzania, the late Mwalimu Julius K Nyerere, recognized the integral part wildlife plays in this country. In September 1961 at a symposium on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources, he gave a speech that laid the foundation for conservation in post-independent Tanzania. The extract of that speech has become known as the Arusha Manifesto. Mzee Kiishweko joined TANAPA eight years after the Tanganyika National Parks Ordinance CAP [412] of 1959 had established the organization now known as Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA), and Serengeti became the first National Park. Currently TANAPA is governed by the National Parks Ordinance Chapter 282 of the 2002 revised edition of the Laws of the United Republic of Tanzania. Mzee Kiishweko will be remembered through a holy service and life celebration activities by his family, friends and community at his home at Kishao village, Karagwe District, on February 5th this year