The elections follow the resignation and death of some councillors. The names include 24 men and three women, according to a statement from NEC. The statement reveals that aspirants in four wards were nominated on January 20 while other aspirants in six wards were nominated on January 24. NEC named the aspirants in Buhangaza Ward civic polls in Muleba District, Kagera Region as Jenitha Tibihenda (CCM), Nelson Makoti (Chadema) and Grayson Aniceth (NCCR Mageuzi). In Siha District Council of Kilimanjaro Region which has three wards, the aspirants are Zakaria Lukumai (CCM) and Agness Lasway (Chadema), who will battle it out in the Gararagua Ward. Others are Lwite Ndossi (CCM) and Daniel Mollel (Chadema) for the Donyomuruak Ward, while for Kashashi Ward, the aspirants are Suzan Natai (CCM) and Emmanuel Saro (Chadema). In Mwanza Region, the by-election is scheduled to take place in two wards of Kanbyelele whose aspirants are Marco Yela (ACT Wazalendo), Daniel Makoye (CCM) and George Mhoja of Chadema and Isamilo Ward where the aspirants are Nyamasiriri Marwa (CCM), John Kisyeri (Chadema), Hashim Ramadhan (CUF), Georgina Kibendegele (DP) and Ramadhani Mtoro (UDP). A by-election is also expected in Singida District where the aspirants are Abdallah Mkoko (CCM), Manase Kijanga (Chadema) and Abdallah Kinga of CUF. In Madanga Ward of Pangani District, Tanga Region, the aspirants are Mohamed Abdallah (ACT Wazalendo), Athuman Tunutu (CCM) and Swaibu Mwanyoka (CUF). Elsewhere in Dodoma where a byelection is expected to take place in twowards, the aspirants are Amos Mloha (CCM), Alex Chalo (Chadema), Ndahani Mazengo (CHAUMMA) and Noah Lemto, who sailed unopposed in the Kimagai Ward of Mpwapwa District. The election of councillors will coincide with parliamentary by-elections of Kinondoni and Siha constituencies. In the Kinondoni constituency, Dar es Salaam Region, the aspirants who received the nod from the constituency’s Chief Returning Officer are Godfrey Maliza (TLP), Johnson Mwangosi (SAU) and Mwajuma Milambo of UMD. Others are John Mboya (Demokrasia Makini), Maulid Mtulia (CCM), Mary Mpangala (DP), Salim Mwalimu (Chadema), Rajabu Salum (CUF), Mohamed Majaliwa (NRA), George Christian (CCK), Ally Omari Abdallah (ADA -Thadea) and Ashiri Kiwendu of AFP. In Siha constituency, Kilimanjaro Region, the aspirants are Dr Godwin Mollel (CCM), Mdoe Yambazi (SAU), Tumsifuheri Mwanry (CUF) and Elvis Mosi (Chadema).