During its public awareness campaigns organised in Dar es Salaam at the weekend, the Force Commissioner General, Inspector Thobias Andengenye told participants that unplanned construction was among serious challenges facing rescuers when disaster strikes. “… we’ve come across many people who never knew that the Force is an important organ to involve at an early stage of residential construction. We let them know now, and it is our expectations that you participants will disseminate this education to your colleagues,” he said, adding: “The Force continues to be an important organ even after construction is completed … since it’s also tasked with all matters of fire fighting … we insist that every house should have first-aid fire-fighting equipment with full ‘how to use’ knowledge kits to enable owners operate the apparatus. Acting Regional Administrative Secretary Michael Ole-Mungaya commented that high demand (for residential houses) was the reason behind unplanned settlements; he further clarified that the demand for construction was higher than the government’s ability to put up new housing. Statistics now show that unplanned settlements within Dar es Salaam stood at 70 to 80 per cent, and advise the public to seek advice from all relevant organs before embarking on construction activities. “Consulting relevant authorities is not only good in dealing with fire accidents but also other calamities including floods. Those who already live in risky areas must obey government calls to vacate,” he advised. He also urged the public to help curb disasters by installing valid first-aid kits, be it in homes, offices or on roads (for motor-vehicle operators). The Dar es Salaam Special Zone Communications Officer, Inspector Peter Mwambene has reminded the public to call emergency numbers 114 for immediate rescue services. At the same time, people should set time to visit the Fire Force offices for further information on how to fight disasters, stressing: “Our services are free … and mobile.”