Azam who clinched last year’s Mapinduzi Cup after defeating 1-0 the tournament’s historical champions Simba SC, are targeting to match Simba’s title winning record by upsetting URA in today’s finals. The Zanzibar President Ali Mohamed Shein will be there to witness the encounter as a Chief Guest. Azam cruised into the final stage after posting a slim 1-0 win over the event’s debutants Singida United while URA eliminated Yanga by 5-4 goals on penalties following a barren draw in the normal time. However, the ice-cream makers still face an uphill task against URA who are yet to concede a defeat until the final stage. The Ugandan taxmen have defeated all Mainland Premier League giants Simba and Young Africans and their last opponent Azam as well. Azam and URA clashed at the group stage and the Ugandans taxmen claimed a slim 1-0 victory. The goal netted by Nicolas Kagaba gave the Ugandan their vital win. What URA garnered at the Group A match stage convinces a tough going for Azam since it is apparent that URA are a hard nut to crack in this year’s tournament. However, Azam who heavily bank on their upcoming striker Shaban Idd and the Ghanaian Bernard Arthur, are upbeat to defend their title and likely to clinch it for second consecutive time so as to match Simba’s record. The Msimbazi Street Boys have clinched it three times. But the Ugandans are as well keen to dethrone Azam so as they can return to Uganda with a coveted trophy. It will be their second time to win it in a two-year span as they won it for the first time in the tournament held in 2016. They clinched the title after thrashing Mtibwa Sugar 3-1 in the final held at the Amaan Stadium. URA captain Jimmy Kulaba was quoted as saying that they are going to ensure they are not returning home empty handed and that proves they are serious contenders. He warned Azam to be careful or else URA will once again overpower them like they did at the Group stage. While on Azam side, Shaban Idd admitted the final match will be tough and unpredictable and it forces maximum alertness and concentration in all 90 minutes of the game. He said there are evidences that URA have been proved a hard nut to crack since they don’t give opponents a room to breath and organise attacks. He is, however, optimistic that everything will go well on his side and they can retain their title . Meanwhile, the Vodacom Premier League which had a brief break to pave the way for the Mapinduzi Cup, resumes today with three venues engaged. At the sokoine Stadium in Mbeya region, football supporters will witness the Mbeya derby pitting Tanzania Prisons against traditional rivals Mbeya City in the VPL 13th round. At the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium, Ndanda FC will host Mbao FC from Mwanza. Mtibwa Sugar will travel to Iringa to face Lipuli FC whose their technical bench reportedly in dispute that forced the Coach Seleman Matola backing away following some misunderstandings with his colleague Amri Said .