The school, which was among 10 worst performers in the Primary School Leaving Examinations (PSLE) in 2016, according to National Examination Council of Tanzania (NECTA), had only four teachers, all being men. Having noticed the shortage, the government posted one teacher, expecting to add the number to five. But when the ‘Daily News’ visited the school in October, last year to establish if there were any changes it was leant that the number of teachers had not changed. That means until schools closed last December for a long vacation Lumba Chini Primary School with 599 pupils were under only four teachers. Speaking on the quality of education offered by Lumba Chini Primary School under such critical shortage of teachers one needs to assess how Standard VII pupils performed in their final examination last year. According to the 2017 Primary School Leaving Examination results, Lumba Chini School was at the 5,102nd position in the category that involves 6,839 schools. None of the 34 pupils who sat for the examination at Lumba Chini School scored the average of ‘A’. Only six scored the average of ‘B’ and the rest scored the average of ‘C’, ‘D’ and ‘E’. “A teacher was posted to our school and reported last year but he later asked for a permission to return home briefly to put his things in order, promising to come back some days later. However, as we speak today he hasn’t come back,” says Mr Johnson Mwande, a Lumba Chini Primary School Teacher. Explaining about the problem, Lumba Chini Primary School Head Teacher, Mr Emmanuel Kunambi, says he was happy to learn that the government had given Lumba Chini top priority given the fact that the school was not performing well in the previous years. The head teacher admits that there are challenges at the village in terms of social services, including transport and health services though, he says, such factors are not the reasons that should deter a teacher from working in the area. But the motorcycle rider at Mngazi in Morogoro Rural who only identified himself as ‘Dula’ admits that Lumba Chini Primary School is indeed located in the remote area that cannot be reached by cars. He says the area is only accessible by motorcycles, a factor that discourages teachers from working in the area. Chohero Primary School which is located at Lumba Chini Village in Ikeo ward, Mvomero District in Morogoro region faces similar problems in terms of geographical locations and shortage of teachers. Like Lumba Chini, the Chohero School was ranked among ten poorest performing primary schools not only in the Morogoro Region but at national level as well, according to 2016 PSLE results released by NECTA. The school which had only two male teachers who were teaching over 400 pupils, was given a priority after it was realised that among many reasons that led to the poor performance of school, shortage of teachers was the biggest problem. Chohero Primary School Head Teacher Bernard Pius says he breathed a sigh of relief after he received two teachers -Juma Chikwera and Emmanuel Haule- at the school. Mr Emmanuel Haule, who is among the two teachers posted to Chohero, says “when I reported here for the first time, I felt like my dream to continue with this profession fading away. Just imagine you have to walk for three hours from here to catch the bus at the main road. It is indeed a challenge,” he says. Mr Haule, who teaches Mathematics, Science and English subjects from Standard Three to Standard Seven due to the critical shortage of teachers at the school adds “I nearly resigned due to challenges but our head teacher encouraged us not to do so since we teachers, have the responsibility to educate the society.” “If someone is born at Chohero, a place surrounded by mountains, does not manage to get out of the village for his entire life he may not be able to know how the car looks like,” says Mr Rogasian Kivalo, a motorcycle rider. According to Mr Kivalo, majority of Chohero villagers have never seen a car since no automobile gets access to the village. He says if the government wants civil servants such as teachers, doctors and nurses to stay and work in the remote areas like Lumba Chini or Chohero there is a pressing need to avail the areas with social services. The situation that teachers at Lumba Chini and Chohero primary schools face is similar to the conditions that surround Magunga Primary teachers in Mvomero district, a school that is located some kilometres from Morogoro-Dodoma Highway. Given the fact that it may take roughly two-and-half hours to ride by motorcycle from Magunga Primary School to reach Dodoma-Morogoro highway teachers see the place as being too peripheral. The shortage of teachers at Magunga Primary School has had a negative impact on its pupils’ performance. According to 2016 PSLE the school was ranked among ten worst performing schools at respective district, regional and national level. After persistent poor records of performance in examinations the government relocated one teacher, Ms Neema Makundi, to Magunga Primary School to salvage the situation from a school that was not immediately identified in the same district. Since Ms Neema was promised by Mvomero District Council that she would be provided with a house but was discouraged to learn that upon arrival that the structure was unfinished. “This house has no latrines. So when I want to go to the washroom I have to cross the road to other teacher’s home,” the teacher says. Ms Makundi was sent to the school to fill the gap of teaching staff though she admits that the working environment does not attract someone to stay, insisting though “I have to work since it is my job.” Like in Chohero and Lumba Chini, social services are a challenge at Magunga Village. Roles of local governments While Section 118 (1) (a) of Local Government (District Authorities) Act of 1982 empowers District Councils, including Morogoro Rural and Mvomero and Kilosa District Councils in Morogoro, to ”formulate, coordinate and supervise the implementation of all plans of the economic, commercial, industrial and social development..”, still programmes gearing to improve rural social services are hardly implemented. Additionally, the same law provides for establishment of ward development committees in all wards to oversee implementation of development projects. The councillor of Singisa ward, Ms Anna Mgela, where Lumba Chini Primary School is located, says the ward and village have failed to improve school infrastructures due to economic challenges facing residents in her area. She says, the current cost sharing policy requires wananchi through their local government authorities to raise 20 per cent of total project cost in their areas. “The problem is that we have a lot of projects await us.…we have no roads, bridges, enough classrooms and houses for teaching and health staff…this is why we have couples of challenges and we shall not make it if we implement all at a time due to scarcity of resources,” says Ms Mgela and supported by her counterpart from Magole ward councillor in Kilosa district, Mr Halfan Kaunda. Mr Kaunda says, currently, village governments in his ward are raising funds from wananchi to build more classrooms as Muungano Primary School which has only five classes for more than 950 pupils. He said they were waiting for Kilosa District Council to release money to finish the two classrooms, with the houses for the teachers pending. Asked how the regional government is going to improve the school environment to attract more teachers to stay in the rural setting, Morogoro Regional Commissioner (RC), Dr Stephen Kebwe, says the current programme is to sensitise the public through their village governments to participate in making bricks, collecting stones and other manual works during the construction of houses, latrines and other school infrastructure and social services. Until the end of last year, according to RC, the programme was to make bricks. According to him, improving social services including health, transport and communications will attract teachers to stay in the rural setting. He admits that some staff are shunning rural of Morogoro because of poor social services, hence the regional government is determined to rectify the situation. Improving School Environment According to Eric Digest (www.ericdigests.org), the organisation that publishes education based articles in USA, teachers leave communities because of geographic isolation, weather, distance from larger communities and family and inadequate shopping, suggesting that Districts can develop orientation programmes and mentoring, and support joint school-community efforts to help new teachers feel more at home. While Morogoro region is striving to improve social services including water, health and houses as a strategy of retaining teaching staff and other public officials in the rural settings, surrounding community should be learn how to support the new teachers to adapt new environment and culture. This will make teachers work comfortable since they would feel that they have a community support.