Athuman, who is former Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI), noted that by involving youth in sports activities, the current rate of crime will be minimised. “I have learnt this experience through past records. When youth are engaged in sports activities, they tend to be friendly to report immediately suspects involved in criminal acts,” he said. He made the remarks while presenting a trophy and a bull worth 1m/- to Bakoba FC team captain, Erick Nyonga. Bakoba FC emerged victorious, winning the Ollomi Cup by edging hard fighting Kahororo FC in a closely contested final match played at the Kaitaba Stadium on Friday afternoon. The lone goal of the day was scored by Bakoba FC striker, Evod Kipilipili in the 14th minute. He capitalised on a defensive mix-up at Kahororo FC goal mouth to send the ball in the far corner of the net past helpless custodian Denice Dickson of Kahororo FC. Athuman, on behalf of the Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Salum Kijuu, appealed to other sports pundits to emulate the example and sponsor another tournament. At least 16 teams participated in the Ollomi Cup that kicked off on November 26, last year and was sponsored by the Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC), Augustine Ollomi. They include Hamugembe, Rwamishenye, Bakoba, Kitendaguro, Polisi Jamii, Kibeta, Bilele, Kashai and Buhembe. Others are Kahororo, Miembeni, Nshambya, Ijuganyondo, Nyanga, Kagondo and Police Kagera FC. Meanwhile, defending Kagera regional soccer champions, Eleven Stars FC from Misenyi district will face Kumuyange FC from Ngara district in the last match, to determine the winner of the Third Division soccer league here today. Eleven Stars hammered Vatican FC from Muleba district 4-2 on Wednesday afternoon. Until half time Vatican FC were leading 2-1. Striker Nelson Richard opened the score for Vatican FC, scoring with an angle shot in the second minute while Alden Daudi added the tally in the 18th minute. Striker Julias Ambrose reduced the margin for Eleven Stars scoring with a soft kick in the 43rd minute. On resumption Eleven Stars FC attacked relentlessly, forcing Vatican FC into defensive. Their efforts paid dividend through Emma Sam (64th), Nimrod Kayunga (67th) and Julius Ambrose coming again into the picture scoring the fourth goal for Eleven Stars in the 80th minute.