The Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, disclosed this in his keynote address, ahead of the World Leprosy Day, which is observed annually on the last Sunday of January. For this year, it will be held tomorrow. Dr Ndugulile pointed out that in 2006, Tanzania reached the elimination target of 1 case per 10,000 people, at national level but the disease is still a health concern among communities in the country. “According to the 2016 statistics of the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Programme in Tanzania, a total of 2,047 new patients were diagnosed and thus made the discovery rate of 4 persons per 100,000 people. The statistics make Tanzania to continue being among 22 countries with highest prevalence rate of leprosy patients,” said Dr Ndugulile. Besides the 10 regions, he named 20 districts that are recorded with the highest prevalence rate of leprosy and are yet to reach the elimination target. The districts are Liwale, Nkasi, Ruangwa, Nanyumbu, Shinyanga Municipality, Kilombero, Mafia, Pangani, Mvomero and Masasi Township. Others are Lindi District Council, Kilwa, Mpanda, Nachingwea, Rufiji, Korogwe, Mkinga, Ulanga, Morogoro District Council and Chato. “Looking 10 years back from 2007 to 2016, statistics show that a total of 1,456 children were diagnosed and received treatment for leprosy. Such revelation among children is a clear testimony that new infections still exist in the country,” he said. The Deputy Minister observed that this year’s theme, “Zero Disabilities in Girls and Boys” reflects that each and every individual needs to do more to eradicate the disease especially in the mentioned regions and districts. He further noted that efforts should be directed on early stage diagnosis to prevent new infections, especially towards children and youth from acquiring disabilities. Dr Ndugulile emphasised on the need to overcome stigmatisation and misconceptions that the disease is caused by witchcraft among society members. “The disease can be treated and its treatment is free...we should all discourage any forms of stigmatisation against leprosy patients,” he observed. He identified some of the signs as swellings that do not come with any form of pain, rashes among others. According to the Programme Officer of the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Programme, Dr Beatrice Mutayaba, the aim is to attain zero disabilities due to leprosy.