The five-year mission seeks to improve the enabling environment for media to operate, strengthen professionalisation of media stakeholders, increase capacity as well as sustainability of community radio stations to provide accurate, impartial and relevant information. Co-ordinated by an international non-profit organisation, Internews network, the project seeks to support an open, inclusive environment in which media and civil society provide accurate and impartial information that promotes participation, inclusion and accountability. The key partners in the project include Media Council of Tanzania (MCT), Jamii Media, Tanzania Bora Initiative, International Centre for Notfor- Profit Law (ICNL) and GeoPoll- Mobile Accord, Inc. “This Boresha Habari team firmly believes that over 75 per cent of Tanzanians receive their news from the radio; that greater focus needs to be directed at this medium,” USAID Mission Director, Andrew Karas, said in Dar es Salaam yesterday while launching the project. Mr Karas said it was vital that the next generation of journalists be empowered to play a key role, the youth have a fresh perspective, incredible energy and talent to bring important development issues that can contribute to a stronger, more democratic Tanzania. The Internews Media and Communications Director, Mr Wenceslaus Mushi, said under the project, over 500 journalists will be trained to produce high-quality local coverage and bring impact to their communities. “We want aspiring journalists and those working with community radios to come up with different issues and not event-based stories or basing on press releases,” he said. The project’s focus area will be Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar, Iringa, Mbeya, Morogoro, Arusha, Manyara, Dodoma, Tanga, Mtwara, Mwanza and Kigoma. The Tanzania Bora Initiative Executive Director, Ms Abella Bateyunga, said as one of the partners, they had come up with a programme named ‘Data za Kitaa’ in which they want to help a young and aspiring journalist to create a data-driven society. “We have been working with youth for quite some time now; thus we want to make sure they do get appropriate information on several important things to boost them economically and socially. For instance, there are some of economic empowerment initiatives that most youngsters are not aware of,” she noted. Ms Bateyunga said they would also be using the same platforms used by youth to provide valuable information in a way that it will not bore them but encourage them even more, to pursue their dreams under the Boresha Habari project.