Most disabled children are denied their rights, including their rights to education, and those who get chance to school often drop out because of the many challenges they face in their daily lives. There are various steps which should be taken to ensure that disabled children achieve their educational goals, because this will give them an opportunity of landing themselves employment or employing themselves through business ventures. I believe that the government is doing its best in making sure that disabled children who have attained school going age do so because in future they will contribute towards the economy of the country. Most children with disabilities are disadvantaged and tend to lose out on education and many other social activities from which able-bodied children benefit. Which is why there is need to raise more awareness of these ‘invisible children’ and come up with alternative strategies from all involved authorities across Tanzania, to ensure that the learning needs and behavioural issues of children with disabilities are not neglected. These invisible children are the most vulnerable in communities, and have long been stigmatised, where most people with physical or mental disabilities are destined for a life of begging by families who see them as a source of income. Although many African governments provide free primary education to children with disabilities, more focus is still needed on the issues that affect children. The 2010 progress report for the UN Millennium Development Goals noted that despite some countries’ progress towards achieving the goal of universal primary education; children with disabilities represent the majority of those excluded from such free education schemes. UNICEF estimates that 22,000 children are dying each day due to a host of deprivations because of poverty. Many die quietly in some of the remotest and poorest villages on earth, far removed from the scrutiny of the watchful eye and the conscience of the world. It is equally sad to note that about 67 million children of primary school age in the developing world do not attend school and around 300 million children go to bed hungry every day.