Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries, Dr Maria Mashingo was speaking when she visited the meat processing factory ‘SAAFI’ in Sumbawanga town in the region. She said the government intends to improve markets and improve the environment of doing businesses and enabling the government to collect revenues as required. The PS was responding to the meat factory’s request to close the market so that their factory could enjoy getting livestock for meat processing, which is mostly sold to Zambia. Dr Mashingo said the government’s intention is to open more markets along borders to ease selling of livestock and other related products. “This will stimulate economic growth for both livestock keepers and the government at large, therefore the fifth government basically is looking forward to open more markets along these areas,” she noted. The PS said the decision to close the market depends on opinion from various stakeholders and urged the investor to focus on processing more products to meet the demands of its customers. “I would like to urge the investor to work hard to ensure his factory meet demands of both local and international markets,” she said. The SAAFI Director General, Mr Paul Mzindakaya said his factory is capable of slaughtering a total of 300 cows and 800 goats a day. He said the factory applies modern technology and that it is the leading modern factory in the East African region so far. He added that the factory has a modern laboratory for examining the quality of meat before transporting it to its customers. “It is a leading factory in processing quality meat in the country so far, we adhere to all principles and health regulations in processing meat for our customers,” he said. He said the company has no problem with the market for its products in and outside the country. He said previously they were supplying 25 tons of meat to Zambia every week. “We also obtained market in Angola and Oman, therefore market for our meat is not a big challenge here,” said Mr Mzindakaya.