Speaking at the Second ICWA India-Africa Conference held under the India Africa Forum Summit in Dar es Salaam, recently, Mr Caesar Cheelo, a Senior Researcher Fellow from the Zambia Institute for Policy Analysis and Research said member states need to gain internal impetus for enhanced intraregional and international trade, infrastructural and Industrial development, jobs and geo-political and security cooperation, among other things. “The Sub-Saharan Africa is rising, particularly in socio- economic, trade, industrialisation and demographic dividend terms,” he said. The Researcher noted that in January 2012, the African Union made a decision to establish a Continental Free Trade Area (CFTA) by last year, but this time was missed. However, he said despite that a momentous milestone was achieved with the establishment of the Tripartite countries making COMESA, EAC and SADC identified as the CES region. “The CES region covers 71 per cent of Sub-Saharan Africa’s total land area, accounting for 67 per cent of the population and exports, contributes 76 per cent to GDP and takes up to 87 per cent of imports dominating the whole of the Sub-Saharan,” he noted. Mr Cheelo pointed out that such factors create a scope for global powerhouse economies like India to identify opportunities and define roles for fostering meaningful development cooperation. His counterpart from the Institute for Global Dialogue in South Africa, Prof Neissan Besharati cautioned on the nature of partnerships that African countries are engaging on. Prof Besharati advised the countries to be careful especially on factors of credit lines, trade and investments for in most cases its usually one part benefiting most against the other. “As for the development cooperation partners when you come to Africa what you need to do is train our people more, hire more so as to contribute to their fiscals and own development… If the current system will be maintained the situation will remain the same and it’s not helping us to move from one step to another,” he emphasized. According to Mr EB Rajesh India’s engagement with Africa has evolved across five different modalities over the years including trade and investment, capacity building, technology transfer, grants and concessional finance and lines of credit. “In 2009-2012, trade with Africa grew by nearly 32 per cent annually and currently it stands at 54 billon US dollars India’s credit line global total is 11.63 billion US dollars and to Africa alone is 6.74 billion US dollars equivalent to 58 per cent of the total during the period between 2006 to April 2015,” noted Mr Rajesh