In spite of all the positive lip-service such artistic ventures get from various sections of society, they usually remain just words without any backing action. The bitter truth remains that establishing a project, directed towards uplifting an urban community in Dar es Salaam, always seems to pose to be bigger challenges than previously predicted. Therefore, securing finance to be used for this film school there in Buyuni-Chanika, to say the least, proved to be a harder feat than the organisers had thought it would be. Added to this, they encountered difficulties when looking for suitable candidates to recruit and enticing people to take the issue seriously. According to one of TACCI’s cofounders and directors, Dr Augustin Hatar, who is the overall coordinator of this film school, their purpose has always been to use communications to enhance “community knowledge, understanding and exchanges”. Therefore, the former University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) lecturer in Film, holds to his belief that “everybody has a story to tell and should be given a chance to tell them”. During a conversation last week, he told the ‘Daily News’ that living in that area for the last 13 years, while being engaged with many other community projects throughout the country, couldn’t satisfy them. “We’ve been trying to think of a way we could engage young people in the area, in meaningful activities that would make sense to them and respond to their current needs,” he said. It’s not that young people are born lazy, he maintains but more of a situation that they are faced with limited avenues and opportunities to think through what they can possibly do themselves. It is their zeal to satisfy this void that has brought them to the idea of engaging young community members in creating films. By so doing, Dr Hatar adds, they automatically engage them into thinking of the real and current issues that surrounds them. “That is, together with their own reaction to these issues. You see, once these youngsters have produced their films, they are really reacting to something right there in their daily community lives that sticks to them,” he explains. Now, within the last seven months, with assistance from the locally-based “Foundation for Civil Society”, they are proud of having managed to train a number of producers, assistance and even actors. Actually, he says training started even before they had finished structuring the school’s format. Currently, they’re looking for ways in which they can enlarge their spectrum of training to engage more people to begin thinking about the stories they can tell. It is at this stage, Dr Hatar explains that they would like to come into the picture, to help these “young up-coming filmmakers” rethink the structures of telling their own stories. Another big motivator for the organisation and youngsters alike, he pointed, is that local people have a natural love for films, therefore, want to participate in them. He goes as far as to say that according to statistics Tanzania, is one of the major producers of films using the Kiswahili language in the region. It’s the language that makes these films popular and attractive to the people, he suggests. Although he sees this as a plus, he also believes there’s a need to look for more stories to be put into films, which are also well structured. “Right from the beginning, we said let’s show young people how to structure their storytelling and films, so that they can also sell them, when they’ve made them,” he said. As said above, Dr Hatar is the overall coordinator of this film school. The person, who actually handles the dayto- day coordinating of the students, is Julius Mahela. His speciality lay in journalism and mass communication based in broadcasting. For the last seven years, since he completed his second year at St Augustine University in Mwanza Region, he has been making his living from producing film documentaries. He started with this film school as a volunteer teacher because he sees it as a valuable addition to a growing local film industry. Mahela maintains that currently there are a “huge number of youths”, who want to make films but are lacking the knowledge, as how to do it properly. Once these youths are equipped with the right training, he suggests they would be able to compete in an industry that goes beyond local boarders. “If we want to break through, the most important thing to do is to go back to school and study so that we can compete globally,” he suggested. Film, he says, is big right now on the local front, given the large number of local television stations that are available, since the introduction of such devices as cables and decoders. The fact that these local stations have a working mandate, which stipulates “80 per cent of their broadcast must be local”, the demand for such films is high, he explains. Added to this, having a situation were local people have acquired a taste for soap operas specifically and films generally speaking, works to the benefit of those who produce good well-made films that cater to this demand. This is why they, at the school teach students how to operate cameras, edit, write script and produce their own short film in order to graduate. Mahela saw the presence of the film school being there on the Buyuni-Chanika outskirts of Dar es Salaam, as a valuable addition for youngsters who wouldn’t get a chance to study at such established places as the Creative Arts Department at the UDSM. By so doing, he maintains, they’re providing opportunities to a larger section of locals. This also adds to the variety of topics to be found in the films available. To date they have made eight short films, which he says have reached the required standard to be shown anywhere. The ‘Daily News’ had the opportunity of seeing these short films and was impressed by the variety of stories and the way in which they were made.