Mara Regional education officer Emmanuel John says in a report to Mara RC Adam Malima that unless the security organs intervene and arrest and punish the culprits, the future holds precious little in terms of educational opportunities for a handful of girls across the region – now rated to be ‘in jeopardy.’ He singled out Tarime District, saying it accounts for almost all reported cases, saying the authorities were taking stern measures against all school heads who shield their staff implicated with what he describes as “girl-student-affairs.” This comes against a backdrop of increasing medical and social welfare reports of rape cases, which he says had reached ‘alarming stages’ under which at least two to three rape cases are reported there on a daily basis. Last Monday, Tarime acting primary school education officer Amos Waitara said his office was already investigating “the whereabouts of around 60 underage girls who were reportedly ‘rejected’ by their parents after taking part in “an alternative rite of passage” workshop at Massanga centre – and have since been “thrown out of their homesteads.” The centre, dubbed ‘association for termination of female genital mutilation(ATFGM) has been providing refuge for hundreds of teenage girls who receive what’s now known as ‘alternative rite of passage’ after running away from ‘cruel’ tribal rituals of the seasonal ‘cut’ practised by all thirteen clans of the Kurya communities every two years. In these communities, girls are subjected to FGM at the tender age of twelve years, short of which they face instant ‘isolation’ from peers who brand them derogatively term them as the ‘esaro’ and ‘unfit to marry’ within the community because they are viewed as ‘a curse’ to the family and society. “ … there are also ‘women to women’ marital engagements where one elder grandma who may have failed to get a boy child of her own is accorded opportunity ‘to marry’ a girl who will then ‘raise’ her (husband’s) generation through birth by a male partner chosen by the ‘female husband’”, says Sinda Mseti, a prominent elder in Tarime District. Mseti says regardless of the choice of the ‘bridge’ as the surrogate mother is known, the determination of ‘the marriage’ lies in the ability of the ‘marrying’ woman in terms of say, how many cows, or how much money or other valuables she can afford to pay. The new Mara RC now says, “this is enough” and has since ordered his security forces to carry out serious crackdowns on all rape perpetrators who still ‘walk free’ at the expense of vulnerable girls across the region; these, he says, should be attending classes, instead of tending homes prematurely. Elsewhere in Bunda District, its outspoken Commissioner Lydia Bupilipili has gone a step further, threatening to arrest all local leaders everywhere school pregnancies “will be reported” -- unless the authorities produce the ‘real suspects.’ Says she: “… we believe that the village leaders are part of the problem … they do have a solution to what’s happening … to rescue and secure the future of this young generation through education … it’s the only weapon that remains … to empower the woman and rid her of all sorts of discrimination.” And, elder Mseti is hopeful that the recent election of a woman to represent Tarime’s urban constituency in parliament would inspire younger girls to pursue education. “At least there’s reason for ‘thumb-beating’ about gender equality here … the election of Esther Matiko … the first woman from the mostly male-dominated community … we also take comfort from ‘the likes’ of the former labour cabinet minister Gaudensia Kabaka now the new chairperson of the ruling party’s women wing (UWT),” Mseti says.