Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC), Ms Anna Mghwira, revealed this on Thursday when she visited Kilimanjaro Christian Medical University College (KCMUCo). The RC visited the college for the major objective of speaking to academicians, including finding out how academic institutions contributed to resolve challenges facing the public. “I have come here to establish if the existence of this college brings any positive impact to the public, especially in the aspect of health,” Ms Mghwira said. Ms Mghwira was, to some extent, satisfied after learning that the college had an arrangement of dispatching its second year students to health centres and district hospitals to serve the public, including acquiring experience from real work settings. According to Ms Mghwira, the region crafted various strategies aimed at removing Kilimanjaro from the list of malnourished regions in the country, despite abundance of food. “It is inconceivable for Kilimanjaro to be in the list of malnourished regions, especially for children under the age of five years. This paints a bad picture for us given the fact that we produce abundant food,” she added. The RC said the strategies crafted, among other things, aimed at sensitising and educating women in the region on the importance of preparing and giving balanced diet to their families. Ms Mghwira said experience showed women in the region were busy searching for money through engaging in income generating activities but forgetting one of their core duties of providing their children with balanced diet. The regional leader said there was a pressing need for residents in Kilimanjaro to return to natural food intake culture, a practice that would improve their health conditions. KCMUCo Provost, Prof Egbert Kessy said having been banned by the Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) to enroll students in 2017/2018 academic year due to a number of shortcomings, efforts to rectify the anomalies were ongoing, including employing lecturers. “The college has employed lecturers in various fields and the construction of laboratories is going on. All these are aimed at fulfilling requirements set by the commission.” he said. According to Prof Kessy, the ban to enroll students affected the college with financial loss pegged at 2bn/-. He said given the fact that the college has employed new lecturers, the ban imposed on the college could render them redundant until new entrants were enrolled next academic year.