Speaking exclusively with the ‘Sunday News,’ the Tanzania Food and Drug Authority (TFDA) Communication and Public Relations Manager, Ms Gaudensia Simwanza said that as per Tanzania Standard (TZS 838:2004) for energy drinks, there is a labelling requirement regarding recommendations for use. "Energy drinks manufacturers are required by law to add a statement 'Not recommended for children, pregnant and lactating women and person sensitive to caffeine'," she explained. There are national campaigns sprouting in different parts of the world demanding governments to ban selling of energy drinks to children, where they are citing a suspected correlation between consumption and poor scholastic performance. United Kingdom celebrity chef and campaigner, Mr Jamie Oliver who has pioneered a longstanding effort to combat diet-related disease in children, is backing calls by the National Education Union to introduceAccording to Tanzania standards, children between the ages of 4 and 12 years can consume between 45 and 85mg of caffeine in a day, but not at once from different sources by children weighing between 18 and 34kg.an age limit of 16 on all sales. According to a 2015 study, middle-scholars who consume energy drinks are 66 per cent more at risk for hyperactivity than children who don’t. Published in the journal Academic Pediatrics, the researchers also found that the more sugar consumed, the higher the risk was for hyperactivity. The energy drinks and other sugary beverages popular among the children contain up to 40 grams of sugar, with students drinking two sugary drinks per day on average. Ms Simwanza said that according to Tanzania standards, children between the ages of 4 and 12 years can consume between 45 and 85mg of caffeine in a day, but not at once from different sources by children weighing between 18 and 34kg. She admitted that fear and worry was rife regarding energy drinks largely generated from social media platforms and it is for this reason that TFDA conducts regular evaluation after registration, inspection, laboratory analysis, post marketing surveillance, monitoring on all food products including energy drinks. “It is mandatory to display labelling information as per TFDA food labelling regulations of 2006. In addition to this, we have regular awareness campaigns to remind consumers on the importance of reading labels such that products that restrict children are not given to them,” she cited. Some of the side effects of consuming drinks with high levels of caffeine include headaches, insomnia, anxiety, stunted foetus development, high blood pressure, heart attacks and even death. The Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Non- Communicable Diseases Adult Coordinator, Dr Sarah Jenniffer Maongezi, admitted that there was need to work with Tanzania Food and Drug Authority and Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) to ascertain the contents in these drinks which bring about these complications. “We need to have more evidence of complications arising from the uptake of energy/fizzy drinks, before we conclude on this,” she said. A paediatrician at the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), Dr Kandi Muze, said that she has not seen children which she can say for sure have complications from drinking energy drinks and unfortunately wasn’t aware of any research in the country concerning the same.