News of Justice Kisanga’s death went viral on social media platforms from early morning yesterday, prompting The Daily News to seek confirmation from the Court of Appeal Registrar John Kahyoza.On his part, the office of the registrar itself was ‘waiting’ for a statement from the family before proceeding with burial arrangements. When reached for comment, family spokesperson Dr Onesmo Kisanga, confirmed that burial arrangements were being made at the deceased’s house at Bongoyo Street, Oysterbay areas of Kinondoni District, adding that last respects would be held on Sunday at the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania before leaving for Moshi, Kilimanjaro Region, where the late Kisanga would be laid to rest on Monday at his home village of Mbokomu. A press statement issued by the State House yesterday afternoon quoted President Magufuli saying Justice Kisanga would be remembered for his ‘great contributions to the nation.’ He described Justice Kisanga as ‘hardworking, patriot and cooperative,’ attributes that brought him success during his entire career. “…His contributions to instituting legal discipline after independence and establishment of Court of Appeal after collapse of the East African Community in 1977, assuredly, will not be forgotten,” the President said. Dr Magufuli asked the CJ to convey his condolences to Justice Kisanga’s family, judges, all lawyers and friends for the death of renowned Judge. Justice Kisanga served the Judiciary on various capacities, including a Judge at the High Court and later Justice at the Court of Appeal, the highest temple justice in Tanzania. He will be remembered for his participation in giving landmark judgments, notably in the case of Bi Hawa Mohamed v Ally Sefu – at which central issue related to the distribution of matrimonial property, where it was contested whether a ‘mere housewife’ was entitled to any share of the matrimonial assets and whether her ‘wifely duties’ amounted to a material and valuable contribution. The Court of Appeal, where Justice Kisanga was a member of the panel, ruled that joint efforts and contributions made by each party in money, property or work towards the acquiring of the assets were not free of ambiguity and that domestic works by a wife amount to joint contributions. Another landmark decision involved Julius Ishengoma Ndyanabo v. Attorney General challenging the constitutionality of Election Act over requirement to pay 5m/- as security for costs prior to the hearing of an election petition by the person who is challenging election results. In its judgment, the Court of Appeal held that the Elections Act effectively denied access to justice to indigent petitioners and made it a rule without exception that each petitioner, regardless of his financial standing, would deposit the sum of 5m/- as security for costs before his petition could be heard. After his retirement, Justice Kisanga was appointed the first Chairman of the Tanzania Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance before retiring in 2008. He thereafter worked with Media Council of Tanzania (MCT) in the capacity of President of Governing Board. He was awarded an honorary doctorate by Birmingham University on July 9, 2010, in recognition of a long and distinguished career in the Tanzania’s Judiciary and following his initial law degree (LLB) at the University in England in the 1960s, before working as a Barrister in Middle Temple Inn, London. During the awarding ceremony, Professor John Raine of the Institute of Local Government Studies described Justice Kisanga’s distinguished career as a state attorney, justice of the court of appeal and chair of various international and national commissions into human rights and constitutional reform. He stressed the contribution that he has made to transparency, accountability and good governance in Tanzania through his championing of an independent and corruption-free judiciary, respect for human rights and the principles of democracy. In July 1998, Tanzania’s Third Phase President, Mr Benjamin Mkapa, appointed a new constitutional reform committee, chaired by Justice Kisanga. The former head of state gave Justice Kisanga the mandate to consider a wider range of issues, notably the structure of the Union. Other issues included the powers of the executive; the voting system; independent candidacy and human rights. The committee sought the views of more than half a million Tanzanians from across the country. In his 800-page report, Justice Kisanga recommended, among others, that the United Republic should have three governments – for Union matters, the mainland and the Isles. President Mkapa publicly attacked such kind of recommendations, saying Kisanga’s Committee went beyond its mandate. However, the 13th amendment to the 1977 country’s Constitution implemented some of Kisanga’s recommendations, including the increase of the number of special seats reserved for women.