Presenting the five years’ Strategic plan ( 2017/18-2021/22) for the Kigamboni Municipal in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Municipal Director, Mr Stephen Katemba said with its long coastline abundant in species of fish, the council has targeted Kimbiji, Pemba Mnazi, Somangila and Mjimwema wards and all beaches along Coastal area to accommodate over 3,000 fishermen. “We recommend large scale investor in fish processing. Investor in large scale and medium scale fishing must have ability to train other small scale fishermen on good ways of fishing and preserving the environment of coastal line,” he said. The meeting involved all Kigamboni Municipal leaders including mayor, councillors, ward and villages executive officers, political leaders, would be investors, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), faith based organisations (FBO), the municipal director with his management team and media representatives. Contributing to the presented Strategic Plan Kigamboni, the Executive Secretary of the Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry, and Agriculture (TCCIA) Kigamboni Branch, Ms Upendo Mwinchande called upon leaders to inform Kigamboni residents that there is a commercial chamber established in Kigamboni. She was referring to the plan which she said it was focused on enhancing conducive business environment for public and private investment as well as to facilitate the environment of establishing small and large scale Industries. A livestock and fisheries Officer, Mr Aron Joshua Bullo said the municipal council intends to establish a new modern market place at Kibada which will assure the citizens with good social services and that all health issues are observed for human consumption. He said, the councils seek to engage private sector in this new development under the use of Public Private Partnership as per the agreement that will be reached council contribute land that is free from any encumbrance and facilitate all the conducive environment for investing. Municipal Council has an area of 416 kms with a coastal line of 65km. It has nine wards which are also divided into 66 sub wards.