The CJ was opening a week-long exhibition of legal functions mounted by his department at the Mnazi Mmoja grounds in Dar es Salaam yesterday, where he pointed said “time has come … for people not to keep quiet when they’re mistreated (by judicial officers) … when pursuing justice in courts.” “… We have circulated the (phone) of different officers who can help … they include those of officers from the PCCB (Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau)… please, use those numbers to expose corrupt officials … and those of the PCCB … so that we may take action,” the head of the Judiciary, one of three pillars of the state, said. He said that in order for the people to restore confidence on the Judiciary, it was essential for the officials to perform their duties diligently, listen to the people’s grievances and refrain from engaging in corrupt transactions. The Minister for Justice and Constitutional Affairs, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, who also attended the launch of the law week, also urged the people to speak out when asked for a bribe. “The problem with Tanzanians … is that they don’t speak when mistreated … to go on complaining won’t resolve matters … report (ill-treatment) to relevant authorities … do not just keep quiet. We will take action,” he reiterated. In a brief speech, the Chief Justice also called on people to use the wellestablished Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) in order to resolve disputes or differences before seeking justice from the judiciary, saying the ADR had since demonstrated its own “success” on a number of cases, particularly those related to administration of estates, whose disputed were often resolved within a short time. The CJ also singled out that ‘out-of-court’ settlement of disputes as “the best way of resolving conflicts.” Prof Juma also informed the public that the judiciary was now going digital, under which anyone who files a case in a certain court would be able to trace its movements by using information and communication technology, thus facilitating early disposal of court cases. He requested the people to visit the exhibitions where they would get access to different information about the judiciary, the use of information communication technology in early disposal of cases, ADR mechanism and important issues concerning the judiciary and other stakeholders. Stakeholders taking part in the exhibitions include Judicial Service Commission and Attorney General Chambers, the Director of Public Prosecutions, Lushoto Judicial Administration Institute, Law School of Tanzania, Human Right Centre and Good Governance, Tanganyika Law Society, among others. The exhibition week is part of this year’s Law Day cerebrations, which would be marked countrywide on February 1. The cerebrations would be marked at national level in Dar es Salaam where President, Dr John Magufuli, is expected to be the guest of honour.