The Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC), Augustine Ollomi told the “Daily News” in an interview that people should be cautious by avoiding strange objects which could be explosives, and instead they should report such objects to relevant authorities for immediate action. Mr Olomi said that on November 8, last year, five pupils from Kihinga Primary School in Ngara District were killed while 45 others were injured following an explosion from a strange object. The incident occurred at 8:40 am when pupils were gathered at the assembly. Prior to the deadly explosion that shook the school to its cores, one of the pupils, Masumbuko Domininsia had picked a strange metallic object which he carried to the school. It is alleged that the boy thought that the object, with luck, would fetch him a good sum of money once he presented it to the local metal scrapper buyer Some of the eyewitnesses said that while the assembly exercise was still going on, the metal object, which turned out to be a grenade, exploded, killing the five pupils and injuring scores of others. Explaining over the tragedy, RPC Ollomi said three children died on the spot while the other two succumbed to their injuries while receiving treatment at a nearby hospital. He named the deceased as Edson Bigilimana (8), Evad Teonasi (9), Juliana Tarasis (8), Tumsifu Luvugo (9) and Miburo Gabriel (8). He further said that on October 30 2016, five children from Ihanda Ward in Karagwe District were killed instantly when a bomb they were playing with blew them to pieces. According to Mr Ollomi, on October 15, 2011 four people of the same family died in Biharamulo District when a bomb exploded after a ten-year old boy mistakenly thought that the object he had picked in a nearby bush was a sweet potato and tried to roast it in a fire. The boy who was identified as Chacha Juma (10), was looking after goats and picked a strange object which he thought was a potato. The boy went home with the object which was actually a hand grenade and put it in a fire as his two younger brothers and his step mother sat around watching. It did not take long before the grenade exploded, killing all four family members on the spot. Mr Ollomi named the deceased as Mbusilo Isa (27), Chacha Juma (10), Jane Isa (10) and Peter Isa (4), all residents of Mabare village in Nyakahura Ward, Biharamulo District.