Speaking at Ilboru High School where he has just started form One studies, Ramadhan says the only problem facing him at the boarding institution is access to toilets. “My friend Shadrack Gasper assists me to the loo as well as helping me to put clothes on,” he states. In the class, Ramadhan needs special seating arrangement. He does not use a table, but two chairs are reserved for him; one to sit on and another for writing. The metallic chairs are on the same level so that while seated on one, he can easily grab a pen and pencil with toes, at the same time balancing an exercise book placed on the second chair with the other foot. Arusha Regional Education Officer Gift Kyando said upon hearing that the boy without arms had excelled in National Examinations and required to join Ilboru Secondary this year, he started finding ways on how to assist him once he gets into boarding school. “I had to make special request at Ilboru so that another student, Shadrack Gasper who had been Ramadhani’s schoolmate at Albehije Frankosea English Medium Primary School be also granted vacancy at the school simply to assist his handicapped friend,” he said. Mr Mrutu Salvatory, a teacher at Ilboru High School said at the moment the school, which is the oldest institution in Arusha, has plans to construct toilets for physically challenged students adjacent to classrooms. “We have such toilets but are located in dormitories, which means disabled students are compelled to keep returning into their respective dorms to access specially fitted washrooms,” explained Mr Salvatory. Born without upper limbs, Ramadhan says he started learning to write using toes while at home, “When joining Kindergarten, I already knew how to read and write and later on in Primary School topped class performances,” he recalls. Ramadhan’s parents live in Mianzini, but his father, Mr Idd Rashid, a long-distance truck driver was not at home when we visited the house, which was locked because the mother was also out attending her businesses in town. Rama is the second born in the family of three children- -the first born, Rashid, Ramadhan himself and Salum.