The pledge was made in Dar es Salaam by the Pakistan Chargé d’Affaires, Mr Amir Khan during a welcome party to Pakistan Navy officers who completed their three-day goodwill visit to the country. “Pakistan and Tanzania have long friendship relations and the visit of Pakistan Navy is a sign of good relations the two countries have,” he said. Pakistan Navy Ship, Khaibar, under Commanding Officer, Capt. Ehsan Ahmad Khan, paid a goodwill visit to Dar es Salaam Port, from January 20 - 23, this year. The ship was welcomed and given a grand reception on arrival by high ranking Tanzanian Navy officials. The onboard Ship reception hosted by the CO, was attended by Ministry of Foreign Affairs officers and other government departments, Diplomatic Corps and Pakistani community notables. The goodwill visit was a landmark in the broader framework of close cooperation and friendly relationship between the armed forces and navies of Pakistan and Tanzania. It was also a reaffirmation of commitment to promoting bilateral relations in diverse fields. “The visit, provided an opportunity to the navies of the two countries to share professional experiences and discuss future prospects of cooperation,” said the ship captain. The captain added that it is high time now to enhance maritime collaboration through regular interactions, exchange of visits of senior officers, training cooperation and participation in bilateral/multinational exercises and exhibitions. Expounding further, he said the 3-day visit to Dar es Salaam, covered a host of activities including courtesy calls of Captain Khan and Pakistan navy officers and senior officers of Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) as well as engagements in various social activities in Kigamboni District. “We had an opportunity to visit a local school, orphanage house and Kigomboni Health Centre and handed over food items, stationary and medicines as an expression of solidarity and good will gesture,” added the Cd’A Amir Khan. Capt Ehsan thanked their Tanzanian counterparts for the hospitality they showed during their stay. The ship medical team hosted a one-day free medical camp at Kigamboni. The Tanzanian and Pakistani navies, moreover conducted joint training exercises on ship protection and counter terrorism. The ship, which is fitted with state-of-the art weapons was acquired by Pakistan Navy in early 90s. Since then it has undergone major modifications and up gradations in its weapons and sensors. It houses highly motivated and professional crew and is capable to undertake a variety of Naval Operations covering entire spectrum of Naval Warfare