NATIONAL Beach Soccer team Head Coach Boniface Pawasa said the country ought to establish a competitive Beach Soccer league in order to withstand continental competitions. Debutants Tanzania were bundled out of the underway Beach Soccer Africa Cup of the Nations (BSAFCON) finals taking place in Egypt after losing all their three games against Libya (5-2), Senegal (12-2) and Nigeria (4-2) respectively. Speaking through a telephone interview from Egypt, Pawasa said all the three teams they played against during the competition have competitive Beach Soccer leagues in their respective countries something he said highly contributed to his side’s downfall. “Players from Libya, Senegal and Nigeria were selected after excelling in their respective domestic leagues and on top of that have big experience playing in Beach Soccer senior games compared with us whereby we do not have our own league to pick players from,” Pawasa said. Explaining further, the coach said their heavy 12-2 defeat from Senegal was due to the level of investment their opponents have done in this sport as well as being overwhelmed tactically from individual players. “We played against Senegal which is ranked number one in Africa and 25 in the world while we are on 27th spot in Africa and 76th in the world hence from this simple statistics, you can easily tell that we lost against the best team,” he said. Pawasa added: “Senegal just competed in another Beach Soccer big contest called Inter continental which happened in Dubai about three weeks ago where they scooped 6th slot as such, they are better exposed worldwide.” On the other hand, the coach said Nigeria were BSAFCON finalists last year but they were defeated by Senegal with both of them enjoying 12 years experience in the contest. However, Pawasa revealed that despite his team’s premature exit from the competition, they have learnt many things which would help them to do better in other upcoming big games of Beach Soccer. “Both players and technical bench have obtained a big lesson from this year’s BSAFCON and we will use them to make a better team,” he said.