HOLDERS Simba return to Mainland Premier League action today, as they face Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC) at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Placed third in the league table, Simba face a monumental task to close a massive 17-point gap with leaders and traditional rivals Young Africans. Simba have posted 27 points from 12 matches, while Yanga sit top of the table on 44 points from 16 outings, four points above second placed Azam FC, who have played 16 matches. Simba and Mtibwa Sugar were sidelined for the past few weeks as they were facing CAF inter-club championship assignments. The Msimbazi Reds will need nothing short of victory today, not only to close the gap and keep their title defence campaign alive but to inspire the team ahead of the CAF Champions League, first round, return leg against Nkana FC of Zambia at the same venue on Sunday. In their last league match, Simba were held to a frustrating barren draw by resolute Iringa’s Lipuli FC at the same venue on November 23rd this year, results which saw them losing ground to Yanga and Azam FC in race for top spot. Going into the match, KMC Head Coach, Ettiene Ndayiragije has said he respects Simba but said his charges will go for a win today. KMC will come into the match buoyed with their emphatic 5-1 win over Tanzania Prisons at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Monday. “We know, Simba is strong team with top quality players in the league at the moment but that won’t deter us to fight for good results…what we need is maximum points regardless of who we will be facing,” said the Burundian tactician. KMC are placed ninth on the log after collecting 21 points from 16 matches and Ndayiragije insisted that they want to climb up the ladder. The Msimbazi Reds returned from Zambia and went straight for vigorous drills ahead of the today’s match and Sunday’s clash against Nkana. Simba will need to win at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Sunday, to progress into the group stage of continental top tier clubs championship, after going down 2-1 in Kitwe last Saturday. At Nkana Stadium in Kitwe, Ronald Kampamba and Kelvin Mubanga Kampamba scored a goal each in either half for Nkana, while skipper and striker, John Bocco pulled one for Simba in a fire skirmish clash. Simba will now need at least 1-0 win at home, to sail through into the group stage of the continental top tier clubs championship. A defeat or draw of any kind will see Simba crash out of the championship. The first round, first leg was dominated by the hosts, as Simba played more cautiously, seemingly to avoid conceding many goals and at the same time, attempt to hit their opponent on the break. Meanwhile, Nkana coach Beston Chambeshi said midfielder Harrison Chisala is the future of the legendary side after an impressive showing in the 2-1 win over Simba in the CAF Champions League first round first leg on Saturday. Chambeshi said in an interview in Kitwe that Chisala, 21, has proven his worth. Chisala, who was part of the junior Chipolopolo squad that won the Under-20 Africa Cup of Nations on home turf last year, controlled proceedings instigating most of Nkana’s attacks. And, Simba coach Patrick Aussems declined to evaluate midfielder Cletus Chama’s performance against Nkana after the Zambian failed to stamp authority at Nkana Stadium. Aussems admitted Nkana gave his side a tough match. “I am just disappointed about the first half because the first forty five minutes we played like a Tanzanian league match. We didn’t play a Champions League game. When you play against a team of this level if you miss aggressiveness you are punished and that is what happened,” he said.