MINISTER for Livestock and Fisheries Luhaga Mpina has summoned 11 councillors, who were held for allegedly involving themselves in illegal fishing in Lake Victoria, to report to his office today for further questioning. The minister’s directive also required them to be accompanied by their council chairpersons and directors and submit all documents signed during their arrest. Mr Mpina did this at a meeting in Kigoma Region to evaluate the third phase implementation of Operation Sangara, which aims at curbing illegal fishing in lakes Victoria and Tanganyika, Nyumba ya Mungu and Mtera dams. He said the arrest of the councillors had automatically disqualified them from being supervisors of fisheries resources in their jurisdictions before the government decided to invalidate their powers to oversee revenue collection from the fisheries sector. The councillors, who were arrested and fined during Operation Sangara, include Chato council chairman Manunga Christian, Ngaze councillor Emmanuel Tagota and Bwira councillor Sospeter Nyamangondi. Others are from Muleba District in K agera Region. They are Mr Y akobo Seleman (Gwasel), Mr Gideoni Alexander (Mafumbo), Mr Mataba K unambi (Gozba) and Mr Evant Tiletwa (Lulanda). The councillors, who were arrested from Tanganyika Council in K atavi Region are Teddy Nyambo (Special Seats- K arema), Mr Marko K apata (K arema), Mr Erick Hodari (Mpanda Urban) and Special Seats councillor for Sibwesa in Uvinza Council, K igoma Region, Tatu Haruna Rashid. The minister, however, decided to establish the main security zone for protecting fisheries resources in Lake Victoria and other zones in Rorya, Lake Rukwa, Nyumba ya Mungu and Mtera dams to strengthen security and resource management. He noted that all officers at Fisheries Resource Protection (FRP) Section would be tested and failures would be removed. Mr Mpina added during the operation 242 foreigners, who were allegedly engaging in illegal fishing in lakes Victoria and Tanganyika had been also arrested and urged fisheries ministers in neighbouring countries to educate their people about the importance of protecting fisheries resources. He also requested countries surrounding Lake V ictoria to respect and oversee research results issued by K enya’s Marine and Fisheries Research Institute (K MFRI), National Fisheries Resources Research Institute (NaFIRRI) (Uganda) and Tanzania Fisheries Research Institute (Tafiri). The minister pointed an accusing finger at Lake Tanganyika Authority (LTA) and Lake V ictoria Fisheries Organisation (LV FO) for failing to deliver in the protection of resources. Director of Fisheries Magesse Bulai said during the operation, which lasted for 40 days in lakes V ictoria and Tanganyika, Nyumba ya Mungu and Mtera dams, 2,121 people were arrested and their illegal fishing gear seized and the government collected 2.16bn/- from various charges, selling of fish products and fines. Chama Cha Mapinduzi K igoma Regional Secretary Danstan Shao said the party leaders, who were arrested for depleting national resources should examine themselves whether they deserved to hold such positions or not. “Some of our councillors, who were involved in illegal fishing were arrested and filled in the forms to accept the offences they committed and paid fines and should resign because they cannot lead others if they were involved in illegal fishing,” he said.