AUTHORITIES and Tax stakeholders in Coast region have revealed plans to expand tax base through sources like farming, fishing and sand mining which were not fully utilized before in a move to expand tax collection and contribute more to country’s economy. Participants of tax forum meeting held at regional headquarters over the end  chaired the Regional Commissioner Eng. Evarist Ndikilo remarked that though the region has abundant sources of natural resources, only few of these are contributing to regional or national economy through tax collections. “Our region is doing well in agricultural activities, fishing and also has abundant natural resources but we have taken them as real sources for tax collections. It is high time we increase supervision and our efforts in these sources and we will surely see positive changes in this area,” he noted. Eng. Ndikilo also observed that there has been little supervision for tax collection in sand and pebbles mining as well and as a result the region has not been fully benefitting from these activities. For her part, Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) Regional Manager Ms Euvensia Lwiwa told the meeting that despite having good environment for production in almost all sectors, the region has not been doing well in tax collection nationally. “For the past two years, we emerged in 21 and 22 positions respectively in tax collection nationally the positions which we do not deserve apart from the high number of factories and industries which we have. There are a number of factors which have been contributing to this including the fact majority of factories and industries owners pay their taxes in Dar es Salaam instead of here,” she explained. However, she said that her office has started to solve this challenge and has already succeeded to make 54 industries owners start to pay their taxes in the region from last month. In addition to that, Ms Lwiwa mentioned that her office will continue to reach out to all individuals who are supposed to pay tax with education on the subject. In another development, RC Ndikilo has handed over 18,000 small entrepreneurs’ identity cards to all District Commissioners to be distributed to small entrepreneurs as directed by President John Magufuli.