THE costs of producing local pilots may significantly drop as the state-owned National Institute of Transport (NIT), is set to introduce a course for the professionals next year. The NIT’s Rector, Prof Zacharia Mganilwa (pictured), yesterday stated that preparations for starting to conduct the programme had been completed by almost 90 per cent, covering aspects like classrooms, textbooks and trainers. “Costs to train a pilot at our institute will be a half of those charged abroad,” Prof Mganilwa explained, mentioning that to train one pilot abroad costs over 120m/-. “What is pending is to secure accreditation from the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA),” Prof Mganilwa told a news conference in Dar es Salaam ahead of today’s 34th graduation ceremony of the institute. The TCAA will issue the accreditation to the institute after purchasing trainer aircrafts for demonstrations. The college intends to procure five trainer aircrafts by July next year. After procuring five aircrafts, the institute would have a capacity of training 10 pilots a year. The money to purchase the planes is part of the loan amounting to $21 million (about 48bn/-) the NIT secured from the World Bank.The current number of pilots stands at 400 against 800 who are required to meet the demand. Out of the total number of the available pilots, only 40 are locals and the rest are foreigners. Still, 60 per cent of the operating pilots are above 55 years old, thus pushing for a need to produce more pilots. Speaking on this year’s graduation ceremony, Prof Mganilwa said it would cover 287 students of logistics and transport. The first batch of the cabin crew students will graduate at the event. Meanwhile, during a convocation held at the premises of the institute on Tuesday, TCAA’s Director General, Mr Hamza Johari, noted that they had been spending a lot of money training the pilots abroad. Through its Training Fund, the TCAA has been funding Tanzanians pursuing piloting studies abroad, but with the plans to introduce the course at the NIT, Mr Johari said the authority would reduce expenditure.