PRESIDENT John Magufuli gave a firm assurance yesterday, that he had started revoking ownership of assets that were fraudulently taken from Islamic institutions countrywide. He was speaking in Dar es Salaam, during an event to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the National Muslim Council of Tanzania (BAKWATA). “I have started revoking assets that were taken under complex contracts…my request is that once you repossess them, they should benefit all Muslims,” he stated. The Head of State told the gathering that his efforts to ensure that Muslims repossessed their wealth date back to when he was the Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development. “What I discovered then w as th at M uslims th emselves h ad entered into fak e contracts, some of w h ich w ere v ery complex, ” he remarked w h en h e graced th e commemorative ceremony th at sev eral oth er dignitaries attended. High - profile government leaders in attendance included V ice-P resident S amia S uluh u H assan and P rime M inister K assim M ajaliw a. “ I am earnestly assuring y ou today th at w h atev er assets w ere grab b ed, acq uired illegally or in an unacceptable manner w ill b e returned,” h e said. President M agufuli called upon all M uslims to sustain th e consolidation of unity for th e country’ s prosperity . He urged M uslims to ab ide b y religious teach ings for enh ancing th e country’ s prosperity , pointing out th at conflicts and misunderstandings h ampered social and economic dev elopment. Th e Head of S tate h anded 3 0 m/- to th e B ak w ata leadersh ip as h is support for th e council’s activ ities. O n h is part, C h ief S h eik h Abubakar Zuberi said what President Magufuli was doing was good for all T anzanians. “ The President h as done many great th ings since h e took th e office in 2 0 1 5 , including enab ling th e repossession of th e M uslims’ assets,” he remarked. Mufti Zuberi commended Dr M agufuli for his initiatives towards repossession of the Muslims’ assets countrywide. “ Such efforts from the Head of State h ave never happened before in the history of th is country, ” he added.