UNIVERSAL Communication Services Access Fund (UCSAF) yesterday signed contracts with four telecom companies to avail over 360 remote villages with communication services. The companies that signed the pact are TTCL Corporation, Vodacom Tanzania, Viettel Tanzania that trades as Halotel and MIC Tanzania, which trades as Tigo. Under the contracts, the telecom firms will install new towers in 173 wards, covering 269 villages across the country. Speaking shortly after contract signing, Works, Transport and Communications Minister Engineer Isack Kamwelwe said the agreements were signed as part of the government’s initiatives to ensure all villages in the country have reliable communications services by 2020. “The government is determined to take communications services to every part of the country and this will be the third phase of implementing UCSAF’s mission on supplying communications to the hard to reach areas,” he explained. Engineer Kamwelwe said the contract has reduced the costs that the telecom companies would have incurred had they made the investment alone. UCSAF Chief Executive Officer Peter Ulanga said 10bn/- has been set aside for the projects. “About 28bn/- out of 38bn/- that were set aside for communications projects in rural areas have been spent, so we still have the balance of 10bn/- for the third phase,” he said. He said UCSAF projects have benefited 4.5 million people in 2,500 villages, assuring that the investments are continuous to ensure all parts of the country are covered. TTCL Corporation Director General Waziri Kindamba said the public firm will install communications infrastructure in 140 villages in 60 wards, covering 600,000 people. “We’ll ensure that TTCL services are available in all rural areas and the rural folks are enjoying our services,” said Mr Kindamba, hinting that the corporation will increase its market share in a near future, thanks to its strategies and services it offers to customers. “I would like to assure you that the projects will be implemented timely to cope with the government’s pace of implementing its priorities,” said Mr Kindamba. Vodacom Tanzania acting Managing Director Hisham Hendi said the company has been assigned to install communications towers in 18 wards. He said the more communication services supplied, the more development is attained, adding that communication sector provides job opportunities and facilitates provision of other social services to the people. “It’s a great opportunity for Vodacom to extend its connectivity to Tanzanians, we have so far reached over 90 per cent of all villages,” he noted. Mr Hendi assured that Vodacom will continue to provide better communications services and the projects will be accomplished on time, adding that the company has so far supplied 51 per cent of Tanzanians with internet service. “It is our goal to extend the best communications services to the identified areas. Our plan is to cover the whole country with our services,” he said. Viettel is allotted to construct new towers in 82 villages given that its key focus is to expand communications connectivity in rural areas. The company that was established in October 2015 has already covered 95 per cent of all villages across the country.