TANZANIA Revenue Authority (TRA) has revoked business licences for 143 clearing and forwarding companies over tax evasion. The bold move has come barely a week after President John Magufuli challenged TRA management to craft strategies to plug tax evasion loopholes and widen the tax base. The authority has as well seized containers of sanitary pads and toilet soaps destined for Zambia but bearing Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) labels, indicating that the consignment owners had planned to offload the products in the domestic market. According to the revenue body, the malpractice by the containers’ owners would have enabled them to sell the soaps and sanitary pads in the domestic market as they already had TBS labels. TRA’s Commissioner of Customs and Excise Bernard Asubisye told reporters in Dar es Salaam that the seized containers were recorded as transit goods to the neighbouring Zambia but they would eventually end up in the domestic market. "This affects fair competition in business and it’s an act of economic sabotage for the perpetrators were planning to avoid tax through crooked deeds," Mr Asubisye insisted during his briefing to reporters. He added: "After opening one of the containers whose owners had claimed that it was destined for Zambia, we discovered that it had goods that appeared to be for the local market and not Zambia as it was claimed.” However, Mr Asubisye could not reveal the number of containers that were loaded with the goods but said it appeared other containers had already been cleared at the port but had not crossed the borders to Zambia. Commissioner Asubisye said TRA will continuously wage a spirited battle against unfaithful clearing and forwarding agents and other tax evaders in the country. He threatened stern measures by TRA against defaulting traders, noting that TRA has given a 30-day ultimatum to the implicated companies to defend their case before taking further legal actions—including the product confiscation—against them. The commissioner further explained that TRA was verifying transit cargo to the neighbouring countries, hinting that some of them never reached their final destinations and instead ended up being dumped in the domestic market. "Unless there is strong evidence within 30 days from today (yesterday), the implicated companies will be closed down for good and TRA will collect its tax through the companies’ bonds through their insurers," he said. Mr Usibisye said TRA had demanded explanations from the accused companies through the Tanzania Freight Forwarders Association (TAFFA) to no avail. He said even efforts to talk to them did not yield the expected result. President Magufuli last Monday met TRA officials, ministers, regional and district commissioners in Dar es Dar es Salaam and raised concern over tax evasion by traders and failure by the revenue body and other leaders to come up with remedial measures.