THE ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) has firmly stated that President John Magufuli and his government deserve praise for resolving workers outcry on the new pension calculation system and not anyone else. Speaking in Mbeya City, yesterday in an event organised by CCM Women’s Wing, to applaud President Magufuli for his efforts in implementing the party’s 2015- 20 election manifestos, chairlady Ms Gaudentia Kabaka, pointed out that the CCM-led government always has elaborate system on how to handle and resolve workers’ problems. She said President Magufuli’s decision to intervene in the workers’ grievances on the new pension and terminal benefits’ calculation formula, has been seen countrywide as a continuation of his government’s efforts in resolving workers’ challenges, worth emulation. Ms Kabaka who served as Minister of Labour and Employment between 2010 and 2015 said the government had set a tradition of meeting with leaders of Trade Unions twice a year to address their workers’ challenges. She said, during the meetings the representatives of the Trade Unions have presented their challenges and the government has been responding effectively for it cares for the workers welfare to be improved. Her statement has come just a day after the Head of the State on Friday ordered pension funds to revert to the old calculations of workers’ retirements, contrary to the new one that required pensioners to start receiving 25 percent of their saved lump sum savings, while the remaining 75 percent could be paid in monthly installments. Also Dr Magufuli revoked the appointment of the Director General of the Social Security Regulatory Authority (SSRA) Dr Irene Isaka. “So what happened on Friday was absolutely that no one deserves the praise, but the government itself under President Magufuli, who has been in the forefront to defend interest of the poor,” she said at a wellattended event that was live broadcast by the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC1). According to Ms Kabaka, her wing would continue to support the government’s efforts in bringing development in the country, because it was a way of creating entrepreneurship opportunities for women. Presiding as the Chief Guest of the event, CCM’s Mainland Vice Chairman, Mr Phillip Mangula , who among others, asked Tanzanians to continue supporting the government on carrying forward its development agenda. He said it was crucial for all members of the public to keep supporting the government, despite their political differences. “All the efforts that have been taken are for the greater interest of the current and future generation, our president is doing everything possible to fulfill his dreams of transforming the economy of the country, let’s support him,” he stressed. Mr Mangula assured the public that the party would continue to supervise the government to ensure it delivers all promises that were made during the campaigns in 2015 general election. The event was also attended by various ministers, deputy ministers and government officials, who explained various achievements that have been attained in their portfolios. The Deputy Minister of Water and Irrigation, Mr Jumma Aweso said the government was determined to ensure 95 percent of urban areas and 85 rural areas are covered by water infrastructure by 2020. He said this would be possible due to the number of projects that are being implemented countrywide at the moment. “And we shall ensure that all the projects are completed on time and by the end, water shortage to our people in rural and urban areas would be history,” noted the deputy minister. On her part, the Minister for Health Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu said the government would continue to build and rehabilitate Health Centres, Regional and Referral Hospitals countrywide. “All the facilities would be equipped with modern machines and enough medicine and all necessary services would be availed in nearby people’s residencies. Here there would be no need to refer patients to Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) or outside the country,” said the minister.