MAINLAND Premier League leaders Young Africans yesterday revealed that they will parade new players they have signed during the mini transfer window before it closes on December 15th this year. This was said by the club’s Chairman of Registration Committee Hussein Nyika who said their supporters should be patient since when all procedures have been finalised, they would publicly reveal who has joined the team during this short transfer window. “It is true that we are in talks with a couple of players who have been recommended by Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera as such, when everything is complete, we will name them,” Nyika said. However, Nyika admitted that the Democratic Republic of Congo origin winger Ruben Bomba is in the final stages to join Yanga as they are just waiting for him to undergo medical examination as well as agree to contract terms with the player’s agent. “As you know, signing new players requires certain procedures to be followed keenly and that is what we are doing now with him (Bomba),” Nyika said. Bomba was spotted at the VIP section of the National Stadium on Sunday evening during Yanga’s 2-1 win over Biashara United. Similarly, Nyika refuted claims that Yanga are plotting to sign former Simba midfielder Haruna Moshi (Boban) to beef up the team’s midfield segment. “To my side as a sports person, I see that Boban has improved a lot in terms of his performance on the pitch and on several occasion, coach Zahera has been commending him as a skillful player who knows what to do in a game of football. Saying that, it does not mean we are after him, it is just a compliment,” Nyika said. Again, commenting on their first choice goalkeeper Beno Kakolanya who is yet to link up with the team due to alleged four months unpaid salary he owes the club, Nyika said. Kakolanya’s failure to join the squad is not the right step to claim for his renumerations. “There are diplomatic ways that players do to force clubs to pay them but not through boycotting training sessions because we consider that as indiscipline,” Nyika said. He further disputed speculations that Kakolanya’s issue might be triggered by his agent who is one of the key Board members at Simba SC. “I do not think Kakolanya can fail to offer his best at Yanga just because his agent is among leaders at Simba,” he said.