HAVE we seriously made efforts to know where our star football players go and what they do after hanging their boots? Most of these sports heroes, who made their clubs and Tanzanians proud as they had the country at their feet, have faded into obscurity. Some are forgotten and ignored as if they did not do anything worth being remembered and are left to struggle for survival as they look with sorrow at the pictures of their good old days, and the medals they won at the end of several local and international competitions. We have seen some descend into the depths of despair, and come out once in a while complaining that they have been neglected and rejected and can’t even afford to get their daily bread. I have several times met some of these old stars “living like a beggars” while others are doing odd jobs. One of them, whose name is always mentioned by the media when discussing our participation in the Africa Cup on Nations (AFCON) told me when we met at Kariakoo in Dar es Salaam that he regretted for spending most of his youth playing soccer for some of the country’s leading clubs and the national team. ‘I am sure I would have been better off if I decided to work as a shoeshine boy,’he told me as he narrated a shocking story of his life after saying adieu to soccer. Of course, all good things must come to an end. This timeless adage holds true for footballers too, who one day must bid adieu to the only way of life they knew. This is because the pattern of the game changes faster than they were used to, and the legs just don’t keep up. We have many times witnessed a man who was on the field for many years come off to direct a team on the sidelines. Football coaches are generally players, who used to command respect far more than the others whey they were on the pitch. A well-known player who turns manager is usually more capable to read the game and knows the best way to push his players further. To sum it up, footballers-turned-managers are aware of how things are run, simply because they were once an integral part of that very system. Nothing beats a retired footballer who can direct people and actually train players or help to run a club. A number of stars hit the roof real quickly and wish that it never ended. End it must and they take the spiral down in to oblivion. But most of our star players instead of making the obvious move into coaching they opt to pursue obscure jobs after hanging up their boots…. a bus driver a shopkeeper of a small kiosk at his residence. We must not forget that if Tanzania does not care for those who earned it glory in the past, it can expect none in the future. Apart from preparing a system of a pension scheme for these players, I think it is high time we looked for a system that would help them make the daunting transition into new work. Perhaps the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and our top clubs should run short education and qualification courses bearing in mind that football is a short career and the players would probably have to earn their living in another industry after their heydays are spent. These courses could be on poultry keeping, vegetable farming, opening a grocery or a cafeteria. It makes sense to prepare the players, who give us a good time when they are still active on the pitch for life after hanging the boots. Many footballers progress from school to the football industry as teenagers and lack the life skills and educational qualifications required to step straight into new careers. We must help them for life after football. On the other hand, the media has proven to be a fertile environment for footballers, who wish to earn a living and stay involved in the game. We have seen many legends, such as Gary Neville and Gary Lineker, as high-profile examples, but even less lucrative media jobs can be important bridges for those wishing to find new careers. With short basic training they could help do match reports and analysis or help to spot out talents from the grass roots. Let us look for ways to help our football heroes who go through a hard time after retirement.