ALL is set for the 2018 national athletics meet dubbed ‘Ngorongoro National Open Championship’ today at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Kaluta in Arusha today. Gold medals winners in all categories have been offered a full package tour to the Ngorongoro Crater by Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA). NCAA Public Relations Officer, Joyce Mgaya said yesterday in Arusha that gold medal winners in all categories in the championship have been offered by the authority, who are the event’s sponsors a full package one day tour in the crater tomorrow after the championship. Mgaya said that the offer is part of the authority’s effort to promote domestic tourism among Tanzanians athletes inclusive. She further said that it will also boost competition among the participants of the championship. The championship will see athletes, men and women competing in 100, 200, 400 meters, Relay 100x4, Relay 400x4, 800, 1,500, 5,000 and 10,000 meter races, high jump, long jump, hurdles, triple jump, javelin, discus throw and 10 km road race. Apart from the Ngorongoro Crater tour, three top winners in each event will win gold, silver and bronze medals with cash money prizes 150,000 /-, 100,000/- and 50,000/- respectively. The event which is expected to involve over 300 athletes, will also be witnessed by the Japanese athletics instructor, Ayane Sato, who will be scouting for new talents to be groomed to become elite athlete in the future. On his side, Athletics Tanzania (AT) Secretary General, Wilhelm Gidabuday, said that the championship is vital for AT Technical Committee, which need to keep records of athletes in the country, saying it was important for all the participants to put strong performance so that they could enter into AT’s database of athletes. He further said that AT was determined to create runners who will post new records. According to Gidabuday, athletes who will excel in the championship will have the opportunity to participate in various international competitions, to hunt for qualification time for the Olympics and IAAF World Athletics Championship. Earlier, AT had planned the national championship to be held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on November 16th this year but the event was postponed to pave a way for women national athletics championship, which took place from November 24th to 25th.