THE four stock exchanges in East African Community are considering put in place a strategic mechanism for small and medium enterprises to list on their capital markets. The listing, according to East African Securities Regulatory Authorities (EASRA), will enable SMEs to access capital at affordable rates with less stringent conditions than from commercial banks. The Chairman of the Consultative Committee of the EASRA, Mr Paul Muthaura, was quoted saying in Nairobi, Kenya that the member states plan to put in place a strategy to support SMEs. “The region’s regulators have agreed to support the establishment of a Capital Markets Advisory Center (CMAC) to enhance SME access to capital markets,” Muthaura said during the launch of the Rapid Mass Visibilities Strategy (RMVS) in Nairobi. He said further that the stock exchange regulators in the region have been experiencing various challenges in attracting companies to list despite several policy incentives having been introduced. Seeing the challenge, Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) some five years ago established an alternative market with less tough listing condition unlike main market. However, the rate of listing for SMEs top raise TZS 200million is going at snail pace with five companies listed in the last five years—a firm per year on average. The firm listed on DSE’s Enterprise Growth Market (EGM) are four banks—two commercial, a microfinance and a community, all raised capital through the bourse. DSE Chief Executive Officer Moremi Marwa said the alternative market hinges on the bourse’s profound role of offering the required long-term financing to identify feasible projects. “DSE appreciates SMEs as the key vehicle for wealth creation, with huge potential to contribute substantially to real economic growth,” Mr Marwa said at the launching of the EGM in 2013. The EAC’s EASRA initiative is aimed at providing business entities with sufficient visibility as a first step towards preparation for future capital raising and listing on the region main markets. EASRA draws membership from capital market regulators in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi and South Sudan. Mr Muthaura said that CMAC is expected to focus on assisting SMEs in the region in prelisting, listing and post-listing support services on the capital markets. EASRA will also engage strategic stakeholders such as private equity, accounting and other associations, development partners, academia, think tanks and civil society organisations to ensure that more firms list on the capital markets. Issues related to EAC capital markets integration are addressed by the EAC capital markets subcommittee under the Capital Markets Insurance and Pensions Committee (CMIPC). Nevertheless the EAC securities regulators and market participants have each formed regional associations to progress issues of capital markets integration—the East African Securities Regulatory Authorities (EASRA) for securities regulators and the East African Stock Exchanges Association (EASEA) for market participants. The work of EASRA and EASEA feeds into the overall EAC regional integration agenda through the CMIPC. The most outstanding achievement in terms of EAC capital markets integration so far has been the cross listing initiative that has made it possible for seven, five and three companies to cross list from the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) to the Uganda Securities Exchange (USE), DSE and Rwanda Stock Exchange (RSE) respectively. A road map for the integration of the EAC capital markets has also been developed to guide the integration process in the EAC capital markets industry in light of the EAC Common Market Protocol and in preparation for the proposed East African Monetary Union.