THE intervention by President John Magufuli over the retirees’ benefits saga on Friday brought with it joy among retirees and workers in the country. The President ordered that social security funds abandon the proposed new formula of calculating retirees’ benefits, whereby workers were supposed to be paid 25 per cent of their benefits in lump sum and the remainder paid in monthly instalments until they die. The President ordered that this be suspended as it brought shame to the pensioner. He said that to retire is an honour and not a crime because people would have worked hard throughout their lives only to fail to get their benefits when they need them. President Magufuli said that due to confusion and grievances from workers regarding the new formula, he decided that we shall have a transitional period that will end in 2023 and in between all retirees will receive their pensions according to previous pension calculations formula of their respective pension funds. The intervention that was described as timely by many stakeholders brings back smiles in the faces of workers and retirees, who will get the bulk of their benefit in lump sum. This will help them to not only cope with life after retirement, but also enable them to live a decent life and at the same time engage in some meaningful income generating project. This means that they will get the money at a time when they will still be strong enough to do their own projects. The intervention has brought peace to workers who are near the retirement age as they are now certain of accessing a reasonable amount of their benefits. The saga had sent shockwaves among workers as some of them had rushed to retire and make sure they get their money before the new formula comes into effect. On the other hand, after such an intervention, then retirees should use their pensions meaningfully. They should make sure that once they receive the reasonable lump sum, they should embark on income generating projects and if possible help in promoting the country’s industrialisation agenda. Meanwhile, the social security funds should continue coming up with a better formula of calculating pensioners’ benefits so that the money is given to its owners while they still have the energy and zeal to invest the money into meaningful projects that they can supervise and have the chance to see their dreams becoming fruitful. The social funds should also consult various stakeholders before coming up with unworkable formulas that disadvantage the general public. This will help them to come up with a fair and acceptable formula come 2023.