MOST of us learn to be parents on the job. We get to learn parenting at the arrival of our newborns, without any kind of experience, making our life as new parents tough. So we often rely on the parenting we got from our parents/guardians as part of our ‘experience’ on how to raise our own children. You will agree that most of us experienced not only corporal punishment, but also were at times verbally insulted in an attempt to mould our behaviour by our parents. We sat down with Mwalimu Patricia who has been teaching for over three decades, wanting to know from her gathered experience, whether it is possible to raise children without corporal punishment. Please follow the conversation here below. When she got employed at the International School of Tanganyika decades ago, she was dumbfounded about how she could teach children without caning. She said that experience redefined teaching for her, for good. Mwalimu Patricia says when children make mistakes, we tend to get angered by their action, missing the opportunities afforded by their mistakes to pass on some lessons. There are some alternatives to corporal punishment that we can use to maximise lessons we impart on our children. An example of these is detention, where a child is left behind while the rest of the children are out for break and play time. “You can be sure this child will not want to be in such ‘isolation’ again, and therefore will regret his or her mistake,” Teacher Patricia says. Mwalimu Patricia says she has raised all her children without caning, and all of them have turned out to be well-mannered adults. “If your parenting goal is to raise an all-round and well behaved adult – an adult that will bring about positive contribution in our communities – you need to change your relationship with your child, corporal punishment is certainly not any help,” says Mwalimu Patricia. Dr Joan Durrant, a Child-Clinical Psychologist, points out that the purpose of punishment is to derive lessons from a child’s mistake. It is to correct the child’s behaviour, not to harm the child. He says ‘discipline’ actually means ‘teaching’, based on setting goals for learning, planning an effective approach, and finding a solution that works for you and your child. Further research has provided us with evidence that relationship between parent and child plays a critical factor in moulding a child’s behaviour. Build a habit of conversing with your child as soon as they are able to communicate. Small conversation like colour of the sky, days of the week, home time, holiday activities, friends, etc. These are key building blocks to your relationship. Parenting is not easy, it will increasingly look frustrating now that you aim at employing alternative ways to corporal punishment. You need to know how children think and feel. Young infants for instance, being brand new to the world, can’t make much sense of things. They are easily frightened. All they want is assurance that they are safe and protected. They don’t understand their own feelings. They also don’t know how you feel. When they cry, they aren’t trying to make you mad. They don’t even know why they are crying, and at times their own crying scares them. For comments and/or inquires please call 116 National Child Helpline. This is a toll free service available across all networks in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar.