I AM not in the bad habit of undermining the intelligence of other people; or, to give the issue a spiritual angle of sorts, of pasting uncharitable labels on the children of God. I am avoiding that habit because, in the same way as there’s a price tag on everything that is put on sale, there is a price tag on a sin, a blunder, a mistake, a crime (Oh God, the list seems to be endless) that anyone commits. To play it safe, it is safer (sounds somewhat poetic isn’t it?) not to do anything that would put you in trouble. Many people find themselves in trouble by simply failing to exercise a bit of patience. For instance, two people may quarrel, over something that is essentially very silly. One man steps on the other accidentally in a crowded commuter bus, whose owner and the crew, don’t know the difference between human beings and a million tiny creatures that seem to be very distant relatives of sardines, aka dagaa. The owners-crew are not kind-hearted people; they need not be and I am almost certain I would be like them, because, like them, my bus (and the crew who operate it) would strictly be for generating money. And you can’t make money by treating passengers like babies who should be 100 per cent comfortable, by everyone being seated and being comfortable enough to dream dreams sweet enough to cause them to over-shoot their destinations. Since the number of shoes in the bus is twice the number of the people wearing them, it is unavoidable for shoes worn by one person stepping on the ones worn by another. The person whose shoes have been stepped on doesn’t know about something called an unavoidable accident; or he does but has either forgotten about it, or thinks that the other shoe wearer is simply someone whose hobby is to provoke other shoe wearers. While the other man is half-way pronouncing the twoword sentence “samahani sana” ( I am very sorry), his nose is already bleeding, thanks (thanks?) to a punch donated to his nose by the other man. Blood jetting from his nostrils donates the red colour to the clothes of other passengers, some of whom had long forgotten about the philosophy of taking things cool. They start throwing punches randomly, in the process of which some land on other people’s noses, whose nostrils in turn behave like tiny taps from which blood jets and spreads. By the time a semblance of sanity has been restored after the driver had parked the bus, it had been turned into a bloody mess. And what’s more, the tempers of many people had assumed titanic proportions. Some go to the extent of liberally proclaiming “Nitaua mtu”; meaning I will kill someone. Some go ahead and do so, only to become remorseful when they face consequences that include being sentenced to death. Lest I forget, I started off by literary banning myself from undermining the intelligence of other people. You would feel offended if it was you whose intelligence I would put to the test. I am going right ahead to do that, but in the earnest hope that you wouldn’t feel offended. And if you are, I will hasten to apologise a million times; but on third as opposed to second thoughts, I would stop at Apology Number Seven, because a senior citizen like me is supposed to exercise breath economy, to avoid you-know what ! Here we go; what was the significance of last Tuesday ? Well, Christmas Day, signifying the birth of Jesus Christ, who stood for and preached peace and harmony. On Thursday evening, I met a friend called Jim at some joint, for what you would call a post-Christmas get-together. I had almost forgotten his identity, due to his face being swollen, making him seem like he had two heads that had decided to unite. His narrative was roughly along these lines: “While walking back home after Christmas church service yesterday afternoon, a potentially prize-winning punch landed on my left eye. “It originated from a man whose angry mood may have approximated that of the Biblical Pontius Pilate. He claimed that he had seen me ‘live’ a few seconds earlier, winking at his wife. “I actually hadn’t. The defective eye blinks almost continuously; something he witnessed himself. The man apologized and I acknowledged the apology. We shook hands in the Christmas spirit of peace.” The saddened and embarrassed wife wept and then we shook hands in the same spirit.” To spice up matters, I told Jim that the man should have, appropriately, punched him the previous day, Wednesday, December 26; that is, BOXING DAY ! wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633