AFTER a long wait, at last the national open athletics championship, dubbed ‘Ngorongoro National Open Championship 2018’ is back and will now be held next week in Arusha. Athletics Tanzania (AT) Secretary General, Wilhelm Gidabuday, said yesterday in Dar es Salaam that the championship which brings together a number of athletes’ men and women will battle it out for top honours at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Kaluta Stadium on Friday. Speaking with journalists yesterday, Gidabuday said the championship has been made possible by Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) and that the event will be open to any runner, who believe he or she is fit to take part in the championship. Gidabuday also pleaded to other institutions and athletics stakeholders to emulate NCAA effort’s in supporting athletics in the country for the good of the sport. He added that the championship is vital for AT Technical Committee, which need to keep records of athletes in the country, saying it was important for all the participants to put strong performance so that they could enter into AT’s database of athletes. “Last year, we failed to conduct the national championship due to various reasons that is why, this year, we have decided to give opportunity to youth to display their abilities and qualities and the move will help us when it comes to the selections of the national teams,” said Gidabuday. He further said that AT was determined to create runners who will post new records. According to Gidabuday, athletes who will excel in the championship will have the opportunity to participate in various international competitions, to hunt for qualification time for the Olympics and IAAF World Athletics Championship. Earlier, AT had planned the national championship be held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on November 16th this year but the event was postponed to pave way women national athletics championship, which took place from November 24th to 25th. In another development, AT has already sent invitation letters to all regions for the national championship, urging regional authorities to assist their athletes to participate in the event. The championship will see athletes men and women competing in 100 metres race, Relay 100x4, 200, 400, Relay 400x4, 800, 1,500, 5,000 and 10,000 metres race, High Jump, long jump, hurdles, triple jump, javelin and discus. Gidabuday said the three top winners of every events will get gold, silver and bronze medals with cash money prizes set for 150,000 /- , 100,000/- and 50,000/- respectively.