PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has called for teamwork approach to regional leaders and executives in regional authorities in the execution of duties in order to attain the goals set by the government. The premier said here yesterday that a teamwork approach was vital for the leaders to attain institutional goals, saying Regional Commissioners and Regional Administrative Secretaries should develop work plans which should be conversant to both parties. "The two parties should work as a team, not as an individuals, in order to serve the people efficiently," said the Premier while opening a Leadership Training Workshop for Regional Commissioners and Regional Administrative Secretaries (RAS) which was organised by Uongozi Institute. Mr Majaliwa called on the leaders to make use of the training to improve performance in their respective areas, pointing out that the training would enlighten the leaders on their duties and limits. "This will help to iron out differences between regional leaders and leaders of other State organs, political leaders and executives in the central government," he said. Mr Majaliwa said the training intends to improve relations between leaders and civil servants in regional authorities, saying he was optimistic that it would improve relations amongst leaders in all State organs. The Premier directed the regional authorities to make follow ups on land disputes to seek solutions, noting that disputes between pastoralists and farmers and villagers should be resolved at regional levels. Mr Majaliwa pointed out that most land disputes were revolving around complaints on delays or payment of compensation, the public and local government authorities, institutions and the people as well as mining companies and artisans. "Such land disputes should not await interventions from the central government or ministers. But the land disputes should be resolved at regional levels," he said. According to Uongozi Institute's Chief Executive Officer, Prof Joseph Semboja, the training would equip leaders with knowledge on how to make strategic decisions and communications. "It will improve communications conducted between regional leaders and the people in their respective areas," he added. Prof Semboja pointed out other topics as Emotional Intelligence and Personal Leadership which he said it would improve the leadership skills of the participants, thereby maintaining a good image of the government. Meanwhile, the Premier directed ministers to inform Regional Commissioners prior to conducting working tours to the regions, three days in advance. "Ministers should inform Regional Commissioners on working tours in the areas for RCs to arrange protocol. Some ministers have conducted working tours without informing Regional Commissioners," he said. Earlier, Minister of State in the President's Office for Public Service Management and Good Governance, Capt (rtd) George Mkuchika, said there was a tendency of some ministers to conduct working tours without informing Regional Commissioners in respective areas. "Complaints are lodged by regional leaders over some ministers conducting working visits without informing them," he said.