MAINLAND’s Simba SC have been paired against eight times African champions Al Ahly of Egypt and AS Vita of DR Congo in group D of CAF Champions League. Draw for the two continental biggest club level competitions the Champions League group stage and the 2nd 1/16th round draw for the CAF Confederation Cup 2018/19 was conducted at the Confederation of African Football (CAF) headquarters in Cairo, Egypt after the completion of the first rounds of the two events. In the group, Simba have also been drawn against Jeunesse Sportive de la Saoura (Algeria). Group A has Lobi Stars from Nigeria, Morocco’s Wydad Athletic Club, Asec Mimosas (Ivory Coast) and Mamelodi Sundown from South Africa. Teams in group B are FC Platinum from Zimbabwe, Horoya A.C (Guinea), defending champions Esperance and Orlando Pirates from South Africa, while group C teams are TP Mazembe from DR Congo, Club Africain from Tunisia, Club Sportif Constantinois (Algeria) and Ismailia of Egypt. Last Sunday, Simba matched into the group stage of the continental top tier clubs championship after a superb comeback, rallying from one goaldown to finish 3-1 against Zambia’s Nkana FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam is among the 16 teams. Simba qualified for the group stage after 15 years, following their 4-3 aggregate win over Nkana. They had lost 2-1 in the first leg encounter in Kitwe a week earlier. Initially, the Msimbazi Reds were pooled in pot 4 alongside Jeunesse Sportive de la Saoura (Algeria), Ismaily (Egypt) and Lobi Stars from Nigeria but it was re-allocated to pot 3 alongside ASEC Mimosas of Ivory Coast, Club Sportif Constantinois of Algeria and Orlando Pirates of South Africa. Simba is the only East African side in the lucrative stage and in the draw in which the club was represented by its Chairman, Sued Mkwabi. Commenting about his club’s achievement after cruising into the group stage Simba Belgian tactician Aussems said the target was to reach the group stage, which they have successfully achieved. He said they are now looking on what they can do on the stage. The group stage matches will begin in the early weekend of January 11-12 and the top two clubs after the last group games on the weekend of March 8-9 will advance to the quarter-finals with the final over two legs at the end of May and beginning of June. The Friday’s draw also included the third round of the CAF Confederation Cup where the 16 teams through meet the 16 sides who lost in the last round of the Champions League. Twelve times Zambia champions, Nkana FC who were eliminated by Simba in CAF Champions League and demoted to Confederation Cup playoff round will face Ivory Coast side San Pedro. Uganda’s representatives, KCCA, who eliminated Tanzania’s Mtibwa Sugar in the first round of the competition, KCCA FC will face Congo side AS Otoho in the play-off round. Another Ugandan side Vipers SC, who were demoted to the cup after an unsuccessful CAF Champions League campaign, will battle it out with Tunisian side CS Sfaxien to determine who goes through. South Africa’s Kaizer Chiefs will lock horns with Zambian Premier League giants Zesco United in a second round CAF Confederation Cup qualifier. Egyptian giants Zamalek, who are eyeing their first Confederation Cup title, will face Moroccan champions Ittihad Tanger in the third round. The winner over two legs will progress into the group stage of the competition.