AZAM FC will be out to dislodge Young Africans at the summit of the Mainland Premier League table as they face Mwanza’s Mbao FC at the Chamazi Complex today. After a dramatic comeback against Stand United last Tuesday night which earned them vital three points in the ongoing league, second placed Azam have now turned focus on their next opponent Mbao FC. Azam came from a goal down to beat United 3-1 at the Chamazi Complex in Dar es Salaam. United went ahead in the 53rd minute through Hafidh Mussa, but Azam pulled level in the 66th minute through Ghanaian, Enock Atta-Agyei. Youthful striker, Yahya Zayd scored a brace in the 72nd and 85th minutes. In the game Azam were stunned by their visitors after Hafidhi Musa put Stand United in the lead in the 53rd minute. The goal forced Azam Dutchman tactician, Hans van der Pluijm to make two quick changes, which paid off. Pluijm introduced in Zayd and Agyei in his striking force for Danny Lyanga and Ramadhan Singano respectively in the 46th minute. After pressing hard, Agyei netted an equaliser for the ice-cream makers in the 66th minute, after he nodded home a cross from Zayd. Then, referee Hussein Athumani awarded Azam a spot kick in the 71st minute, after goal bound Agyei was bundled down in the box and Zayd stepped up and converted. Zayd had his second goal of the match and the third for his team five minutes before the final whistle after he was set through inside the box by Salum Abubakar. He easily tapped the ball into the back of the net to make it 3-1. Agyei’s goal was his first in the league campaign this season, whereas for Zayd, the two goals saw him bagging five goals in the campaign so far. Following the victory, Azam have now accumulated 36 points from 14 matches, to narrow the gap with league leaders Young Africans to two points. The ‘ice cream makers’ also opened the gap with third placed and defending champions Simba to nine points. However, Simba have two games in hand. Azam’s Coordinator, Philip Alando said yesterday that they have now turned their focus and weight on their next game against Mbao, which is scheduled for tomorrow at the same venue. Victory against Mbao will see Azam post 39 points and reclaim the top seat, as Yanga will be on the sidelines until Sunday, when they take on bottom placed Mara’s Biashara United at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.