IF someone asked me what one of the worst social enemies in the world (of course, where else could this be?) was, I would say “idleness”. I wouldn’t do so on the basis of being intelligent, because, frankly speaking (or is it frankly talking?), describing myself as intelligent would be as “truth-less-ness” as claiming that a zebra and a donkey are brother and sister. I would do so on the basis of a brief lecture (probably the briefest anyone has ever donated to someone else since the world, earth or universe was created) that my grandfather donated to me once upon a considerably long time ago. As a background, however, there’s no love relationship between me and scorching sunshine. It is a hate-hate relationship of sorts. When I was a young social animal, it often pretended to be fire, by burning my innocent body. Once upon a murderously hot afternoon, I sheltered in the shade of a mango tree in the farm of a man in the neighbourhood, roughly grandpa’s age. I was shirt-less, having sent the shirt on temporary leave, by hanging it on a shrub nearby. At least I was a bit intelligent on that score, because the bit of wind that blew across my chest cooled me somewhat, and made me feel that life was worth living. Then, out of the blue; oh, no; from the top of the tree, a nearly 77 per cent ripe mango dropped next to where I was sitting. I forgot to say a little prayer before assassinating the mango. The old man suddenly appeared on the scene and seemed to be in the mood to assassinate me. He was the triple owner of the mango in my hand, the tree from which it had dropped, and the farm in which it was planted. He was holding a stick whose size made me imagine that, if he were to hit a donkey with it, it would end up in hospital and probably operated upon. The man, Mzee Otanzanisa (Don’t fool around with me) seemed to have much spare time to spare. He told me that, I shouldn’t worry because after giving me a brief lecture on why stealing other people’s property was a huge sin, I would eat the mango. But whether a mango can be defined as property is something that only someone who is three times more intelligent than me can clarify. The mzee said he would thereafter administer four strokes of the cane on my you-know-where, as a small lesson on why stealing doesn’t pay and could lead to dire consequences. Very politely, I explained that I was a whole 100 per cent innocent, because the mango had voluntarily dropped into my hands. He branded me a king-size liar in spite of being small-sized, arguing that, it was impossible for me to have been seated with my hands outstretched, and for the mango to have dropped right into the hands. What happened next was something that could give a super-creative script writer a fantastic idea for a fantastic film, but not all those who would see it would necessarily be fantastic viewers. I started half-eating; half-drinking the mango, and run homeward. He pursued me there. Grandpa pretended to side with his fellow mzee by rebuking me, remarking that there was no way an old man could frame an innocent boy as a liar. But after the guest had left, grandpa remarked that making a fuss over a mere mango was unreasonable. Grandpa told me that after becoming an old man in future, I should act reasonably as one, and not as a younger, unreasonable one. He stressed that I should never pass hasty judgments on individuals for committing sins or crimes, but who could turn out to be entirely innocent as they may have been framed by those setting out to settle scores. Grandpa advised that, to avoid such problems, my brain should be active rather than idle; that whenever any situation arose, I should assess it critically before arriving at a fair conclusion. He advised me to act like a tortoise, which he said created in the onlooker’s mind, a dull creature, but which, on the contrary, was engaged in deep thought that produced wise decisions. Recently, out of sympathy, and in pursuit of grandpa’s advice, I helped Tom, a young man I knew remotely. He had been thrown out of a rented house. I kept some of his personal effects in the empty store of my house while he looked for alternative accommodation. The other day, I was shocked when a group of law enforcers came over my house and inspected the items in the store, which turned out to have been stolen. Tom is nowhere to be seen, but I am very much being seen by police officers whom I am helping. wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633