IT’S four again. Simba produced another scintillating football, thumping Mbabane Swallows 4-0 in the return leg, preliminary round of the CAF Champions League at the Mavuso Sports Centre in Manzini yesterday. A brace from Simba’s tactical midfield maestro Clatous Chama as a goal apiece by Emmanuel Okwi and Meddie Kagere saw Simba posting an 8-1 aggregate victory, to progress into the first round of the continental top tier club championship, which will be the last hurdle before the group stages. The Msimbazi Street lads had won 4-1 in the first leg match held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam a week ago. Mbabane Swallows’ dream to claim revenge was shattered early on as Simba’s strategy worked well. The visitors went on offensive from early on, clearly searching for an away goal that would give their opponent a mountain task to climb. Less than a minute on the clock from the kickoff and Simba were on offensive should be in the lead. A blistering counter-attack after a quick string of passes saw Okwi free in the box but his first touch was too heavy, after winning the ball away from a defender. In the 9th minute Okwi, who was on fire yesterday stung the goalkeeper, Ntokozo Shabangu’s gloves with a blistering shot, then skipper, John Bocco was at mess, racing clear onto a clever pass from Chama but with only keeper, to beat, he saw his feeble sliding attempt easily gathered by the keeper. After several near misses, Chama produced sparkling display with his magical touches and skills. He avoided a sea of bodies and cleverly smashed his shot into the low corner at the near post as the ball rolled into back of the net with aplomb to give Simba the lead in the 28th minute. Initially, Okwi was denied a goal after his long range on target was punched away by nervy keeper, Shabangu but the ball rolled onto Chama’s path and the Zambian maestro did the rest. Mbabane Swallows tail was now between the legs as Simba continued to dictate terms in an away soil and missed several clear scoring chances through Bocco and Okwi. And, in the 32nd minute, it was Chama again who got the ball rolling into the back of the net, after he was smartly put through inside the box by Okwi. Confident Chama superbly controlled the high ball inside box before lobbing a clever shot past hapless goalkeeper. After the break, Swallows were on the ropes and Okwi headed Simba into a three-goal lead in the 57th minute after a wonderful ball into the box by Jonas Mkude. Simba’s star striker took two defenders beat them all to the ball before driving his shot past the keeper. Minutes later, Bocco ought to have made it four, when he latched onto a rebound effort by Chama but the lanky striker couldn’t direct his shot on target as it came off the right bar. It was another agonising miss for Simba. Then, Okwi missed wonderful ball into the box on the edge of the six-yard line. He was inches away there, and Kagere at the back post was also unable to turn it into the back of the net. There was still time for the fourth, when Kagere put his name in the score sheet with a blockbuster outside the box, after receiving a superb pass from dazzling Chama, who once again did his tricks and dancing moves before releasing the pass to the scorer. Kagere was replaced by Hassan Dilunga a few minutes later, and in the 82nd Okwi was denied his second of the day after he was ruled offside. He tapped in substitute Shiza Kichuya’s rebound ball, which had initially hit the post. Kichuya came in for Chama and in the 84th minute, Muzamir Yassin replaced Mkude as Simba slowed down the tempo. By this time, Swallows were dead and buried. Prior to the kick off the home side believed they could grind out a win after pulling off a famous comeback against Congolese side AC Leopards last year to soar into the group phase of the second-tier tournament styled Confederation Cup. Meanwhile, Mtibwa Sugar also progressed into the next stage of the CAF Confederation Cup following an away 1-0 win over Northern Dynamo of Seychelles in the return leg, preliminary round in Mahe yesterday. Haruna Chanongo scored the lone goal in the 58th minute as Mtibwa Sugar completed the mission with a 5-0 aggregate win, following a 4-0 win in the first leg at the Chamazi Complex in Dar es Salaam a week ago. Zanzibar’s Zimamoto beat South Africa giants Kaizer Chiefs 2-1 at the Amani Stadium in Unguja yesterday, but the victory was not enough to see them through into the next stage of CAF Confederation Cup. They lost 4-0 in the first leg, preliminary round away in Johannesburg last week.