PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed the Dodoma City Council authority to ensure there are enough recreation centres for wananchi to relax and refresh their minds. The Premier also said there was a need for the authority to come up with modern town planning that would give the capital city a good image. He told the Dodoma City Executive Director, Mr Godwin Kunambi, to undertake the best town planning approaches possible, so that all key facilities could be availed in the new designated city. He gave the directive on Saturday evening after a tour of a number of strategic development projects. The Premier was inspecting the implementation of various construction projects in the region. “I commend Dodoma City leadership for recognising the importance of setting aside land for recreation centres. It is something crucial for a city like this; Dar es Salaam had such programmes but the city authorities sold off the land leaving the public with no recreation centres,” said Mr Majaliwa, adding: “You should not do what Dar es Salaam did; you need to have the best plan and have your own local plans to make them work, especially the strategic development projects”. The Premier said that it would be awkward if all areas would be residential, saying the plan for Chinangali Park was the best idea which must be executed for the interests of community members. He used the occasion to emphasize the need for allocating specific areas for commercial activities, residential, recreational, social services, industrial and institutional development. On his part, Mr Kunambi said Dodoma was among eight cities in the country under the Metropolitan Development Project undertaken by the government through a World Bank loan. Mr Kunambi said the project in Dodoma covers the construction of road infrastructures in Kikuyu, Chidachi, Kinyambwa, Itega, Njedengwa, Mapinduzi, Ilazo, Ipagala, Chamwino, Kilimani, Majengo, Mlezi, Main Bus Terminal and Market area covering 26.6 kilometres. He added that the road infrastructure would be at tarmac level, plus the Nala parking area for lorries.