NATIONAL symbols are sacred and must thus be treated with utmost care. It is thus most appropriate that President John Magufuli has rescinded an order by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology to academic institutions under its watch, on the use of national symbols; that is, the national flag, emblem and anthem. The order has generated much debate on aspects that include interpretations of colours and symbols featured in the national flag. The President noted that the ensuing confusion could derail the patriotism of wananchi. It is as well, on the broader front, for us to chip in aspects that have a crucial bearing on Tanzanian-ness, and to which deserving attention should be addressed. Tanzanians are supposed to be proud frontline global promoters of the Kiswahili language. Embarrassingly, however, distortions are undermining that role. Vice-President (VP) Samia Suluhu Hassan raised concern to that end in remarks she made in Zanzibar at the weekend, while opening the fourth conference of the Global Association for the Promotion of Kiswahili. We concur with her in stressing that journalists, researchers, students, artists and writers should be earnest promoters of official Kiswahili. The VP’s concern is the latest in a series stretching back to the era of Founding President Julius Nyerere, who condemned the trend bitterly. It would indeed to improper to characterise this as just a problem; it has attained near-crisis levels. It may be recalled that the issue once featured passionately in the National Assembly, where some of the legislators decried the distortion of the national language, in the course of which arose a hybrid in which some English words and expressions were sneaked, ending up with something variously known as ‘ Kiswanglish’, ‘Kiswakinge’ and ‘Kiswangereza’. At the mention of ‘The Land of Kilimanjaro’, it registers on many people, including foreigners, that the reference relates to Tanzania. It stems from the majestic Kilimanjaro Mountain, which is essentially a gift that God, the creator, bestowed on our country. In that regard, therefore, Tanzania is technically the custodian of that God’s gift, on behalf of the rest of humankind. Curious people from various parts of the world, and more-so fanatics of natural beauty, come over to get the feel of what is alternately fancifully known as ‘The Kili’, also known as the roof of Africa. As Tanzanians, we derive pride from being hosts of that natural resource symbol, which we must jealously protect.