CONTINUING installation of the new civil aviation radar has attracted international trust, with the country scoring 68.5 per cent marks of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) set standards. Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) acting Director General Mbuttolwe Kabeta said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the country will benefit more upon completion of the four modern radar installation in December next year. “Our country has scored above 60 per cent of ICAO marks, we have attracted attention of international players in aviation sector and we expect to benefit even more when installation of the four modern radars is completed next December,” Mr Kabeta said while officiating at the commemoration of the International Civil Aviation Day. He said in 2013, the country had 37 per cent marks but by December last year it had increased to 68.5 per cent, thanks to various initiatives undertaken in the aviation sector. He said currently the installation of the new radar at Julius Nyerere International Airport was at the final stages while in Mwanza the setting up of the radar is expected to commence any time. Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) and Songwe Airport will have their radars installed thereafter. After setting up the detectors, he said, the country will be safe and secure, with the whole airspace specifically monitored and controlled, while aviation revenues increasing from airspace navigation charges. The acting DG said the main purpose of commemorating international civil aviation day was to spread knowledge to the wider community on aviation sector’s contribution to the economy and explain various development initiatives undertaken by the authority. He noted that other projects were continuing in Zanzibar, involving installation of Instrumental Landing System (ILS) for Abeid Amani Karume International Airport and Pemba Airport. This year’s theme “No Country is Left Behind” was compatible with ICAO’s efforts of ensuring that countries adhere to standards, Mr Kabeta said, adding that TCAA was firm to oversee air transport related infrastructure like airports, air traffic control services and 14 aerial control centres in both Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar.