THE Arusha Urban Water and Sanitation Authority (AUWSA) has introduced a new payment system that is in line with the government e-Payment Gateway (GePG). The authority launched the service in collaboration with the telecommunication company – Tigo that would see customers from Arusha, Kilimanjaro and Manyara remit their bill payments through electronic means. Tigo Director for the Northern Zone, Ms Nancy Bagaka told reporters here recently that the new system would simplify services as customers would get their bills ‘effortlessly’, adding that as the authority has many customers, it would as well save their time to q ueue long for the same payments. Ms Bagaka added that the new system would also reduce substantially the level of ‘time waste,’ and instead increase government’s revenue and improve record keeping. “This new system has a lot of advantages; some of them are increasing government revenue as payments would be made by the government’s institutions and organisations as well as other customers. Equally, they would now improve their record keeping, and information sharing from time to time and keep off thefts,” she pointed out. On his side, AUWASA Acting Managing Director, Mr Edes Mushi, said that the new system would save the authority, as well as the customers of invaluable time and make lives of their customers become more comfortable once they start the application. “AUWASA in collaboration with Tigo are going to make lives of customers more comfortable and they use the GePG system that is already in use by several institutions and organisations. Already the Ministry of Land and Human Settlements Development, Air Tanzania Corporation (ATC), Tanzania National Park (TANAPA) and others have started using this,” Mr Mushi pointed out. The director also said that customers could use the system to enquire about their water bills. However, records show that until last week, some 7 million Tigo customers were using the new system in different payments to government’s agencies, departments or organisations.