THE other day I hinted in this paper the sad scenario of attendance figures of Tanzanian Premier League matches falling at an alarming pace. I expected the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), with the cooperation of clubs, regional and district football associations and referees to show best ways how they can rejuvenate interest in local soccer. It is unfortunate and it seems everyone looks as if he/she is not at all concerned on the attendance figures in these matches, especially outside Dar es Salaam and why they must keep on dwindling. Obviously this trend endangers the stature of the league, and has very serious consequences that threaten the financial survival of the clubs. I think we have no other way out, but to address the situation under the certificate of emergency by looking for ways on how best, we can improve the match attendance throughout the season. We must not make a mistake of neglecting the fact that if clubs fail to cover the costs incurred in every match, either at home or away, it will lead them to make a hefty financial loss that won’t be easy to recover. One of the areas which require examination is the current ticket prices, which many people say are very high. I think a slight reduction of the price and introduction of attractive season tickets and discount to players, have at one time participated in the National League, will help to reduce the weight of this heavy load. Those offered complimentary tickets should be asked to help by paying at least a quarter of the price of the ticket. Lest not forget that by not being able to attract enough people to soccer matches, also, put the clubs at a distinct disadvantage, when they look for sponsors of their teams in the league competition. Sponsorship is always driven by the size of the support base of a club, and the size of the crowd that it attracts in its games. Spectators pay good money to see games by looking at the entertainment value they offer to the public at home and abroad. It is important here to ask ourselves: Do our clubs live to those expectations of the fans? I think they don’t. But the other factor is that the interest of Tanzanians in watching foreign football matches, especially those of Europe, most of which take place concurrently with our local league matches is on the increase. Failure to recognise that the attendance figures are pivotal for the success of the clubs in the long term, the league could actually hinder many of them from operating effectively, or competing financially. This could result in a reduction in the number of corporate sponsorships to clubs and the league. Another factor which must be put into consideration is the fact that the standard of football in Tanzania, even in our league matches, though some people may disagree, is falling at an unprecedented pace. In some games, you count the people on the terraces on the finger tips. All these challenges lead us to look for a right strategy and an action plan that will transform the game to recapture our lost glory. But this requires a coordinated response and good leadership at all levels, different from that we now have, which is dominated by controversies at the national level and at the grassroots. Tanzanians are tired of squabbles during the elections of TFF and some top clubs. I am afraid that if we continue running our league as we do now with empty terraces, we may one day find ourselves with no club ready to travel from one corner of the country to another to increase the load of the size of debt they have in their empty pockets. Let us think aloud and take action.