KILIMANJARO Regional Commissioner (RC), Anna Mghwira has directed the area Regional Traffic Police unit to inspect all Public Service Vehicles (PSVs) before they leave the region for other destinations. Giving the directive to the cops in the area, shortly after conducting an impromptu inspection of PSVs at the Moshi Main Bus terminus, she further urged them to thoroughly check mechanical roadworthiness of the vehicles and subject their drivers to compulsory alcoblow tests during the peak festive seasons. Accompanied by Officers from the Regional Traffic Unit and Road Safety Ambassadors, the RC also ordered that drivers and their partner’ crews be arrested once they flout traffic rules. “This is a thorough inspection on buses and rogue drivers. We will also not spare the operators who hike fares during this festive season,” she pointed out. Equally, she asked the regional traffic unit to ensure that drivers and bus operators of the vehicles adhere to the current Road Traffic Act and the guidelines stipulated by the Surface and marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA). Talking tough on drivers who flout traffic rules, RC Mghwira pointed out that: “No sparing arrogant drivers. One life lost is too many… we don’t want to lose any more lives, while you continue with your madness on our taxpayers’ roads.” Presiding over the exercise, an Ibra Line Bus Company Operator, Mr Ibrahim Shao accused the regional traffic force of shielding buses and drivers who are not complying with the Road Traffic Act. “Such impunity has seen the number of road accidents on the rise,” he pointed out. On his part, Kilimanjaro Regional Traffic Assistant Inspector of Police, Elias Mkuburo, assured the RC that his office would squarely deal with reckless drivers, adding that they would spare anyone flouting the traffic rules and regulations. A recent report by the World Health Organisation (WHO) indicates that 90 percent of road traffic death occur in low-income and middle-income countries, which have less than half of world’s vehicles. According to the report further, road traffic accidents pose a big threat to economic growth and human development.