IT sounds disturbing and utterly unacceptable. Media reports have it that sexual abuse has gone out of hand in our Schools, Colleges and Universities over the past decade. Heartrendingly, old and reputable universities in the country have been pointed out as leading in such awful acts. In a newspaper review segment by E-FM on Thursday this week, the University of Dar es Salaam Staff Association (UDASA) Chairman Mr George Kahango was quoted in one of the newspapers saying that he was unaware of such claims because Dr Vicensia Shule who is responsible for coordinating gender issues at the University has not presented such claims or allegations to him or any other Udasa member. The revelation by this newspaper has triggered public outcry because for several years now such allegations have been coming up from time to time. Cases of rape, defilement and sodomy have become common in our learning institutions in recent years and this is very worrying. If what I heard from the media and what the public say is true then we are heading to a ‘dog-eat-dog society.’ Recognizing this danger, TGNP-Mtandao organized a four day event last year at TGNP-Mtandao offices in Mabibo, Dar es Salaam which brought together gender activists from around the globe to discuss, ponder and reflect on such issues. The 14th Gender Festival was graced by Tanzania’s Vice President Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan and its theme was “The Transformation of oppressive systems for gender equality and sustainable development.” Distinguished gender activists therefore congregated at TGNP Mtandao grounds to share experiences and knowledge, celebrate achievements, assess challenges, deliberate on strategies and agree on recommendations and way forward. The festival provided room and excellent opportunity for participants to network, build and strengthen coalition, contributing to public debate and planning collectively for social change. Worth noting, the congregation recognized and celebrated the contribution of women of substance who fought and gave their time and energy to advance women’s rights agenda and served as role models to both current and young generation in Tanzania. During the plenary sessions and group discussions it was evident that gender discrimination can be eliminated in our societies if men could start talking to each other about it. In other words, men must stop looking at women and/or girls as weaker sex, sex objects and insignificant. In her opening speech the Vice-President Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan stressed that, “Gender equality in Tanzania can be achieved if men can start looking at women as equal partners. I know we cannot be completely equal in some aspects but men must respect women as accomplished beings and involve them in leadership and decision making organs.” Amid applauses from the crowd as she was delivering the opening speech, VP Samia Suluhu Hassan, directed SACP Lazaro Mambosasa, the Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander to ensure that gender desks are strengthened to all police stations. “Commander Mambosasa please stand up…I am sure you have heard reports from previous speakers that gender violence and discrimination is still persistent in Dar es Salaam and elsewhere in the country. As you might be aware gender desks within the police department is part of government efforts to scale up the fight against gender violence and discrimination. Kindly take up your position and ensure that issues of gender violence are well addressed and given due attention in your Zone.” VP Samia also observed that, “The progress that has been made since the Beijing Conference is enormous. Women have been included in decision making organs, leadership positions and a good example is myself…I am here today because of the efforts mounted by women of substance who stood firm to ensure that women in this country are heard and trusted in leadership positions.” Similarly, foreign envoys and UN bodies in the country also commended TGNP-Mtandao for providing space for women to discuss, share, network, celebrate their success and reflect on challenges facing women movement in Tanzania and globally. UN Women Director in Tanzania, Ms Maria Karadenizli, said her organisation supports Civil Society Organisations working to eliminate gender based discrimination, violence against women, stereotypes and inequality in resource ownership and acquisition. “May I take this opportunity to congratulate TGNP Mtandao for organizing this forum aimed at empowering and to bring real changes to the lives of women in Tanzania. I believe through this forum young women and girls will be empowered and challenged to take up leadership positions in the communities and government,” she reiterated. Echoing her plea, the Ireland Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Paul Sherlock, congratulated TGNP-Mtandao and all participants for coming together to celebrate gender achievements and progress made. Ambassador Sherlock was quick to note that real progress and transformation do not come from the air but takes time and with much effort. He said women movement has a great role to play in achieving gender equality in the country. “I would like to congratulate all women, girls and boys who are part of women movement in Tanzania,” he said. My take is that there must be a change of attitudes towards women. Worth noting, they are our mothers, wives, sisters, aunts and daughters. We must treat them with respect if we are to build a better and stronger society. Equally, responsible officials must investigate and take actions to reverse the situation.