HUGE consignment of smuggled meat has been impounded in the domestic market, according to Livestock and Fisheries Minister Luhaga Mpina. The Minister said over 26 tonnes of smuggled meat and dairy products were impound- Through ‘Nzagamba’ codenamed operation, 2,376 kilogrammes of expired meat and dairy products were also seized. The products pose serious health threats, including cancer, to human beings. Mr Mpina ed in the market having entered the country without the required permits and paying the required levies. Mr Mpina charged that the government will never tolerate importation of expired meat and dairy products, which end up damaging domestic investments in the livestock industry. Through ‘Nzagamba’ codenamed operation, the minister said 2,376 kilogrammes of expired meat and dairy products were also seized. The products pose serious health threats, including cancer, to human beings. “The government will not sit down and let some unscrupulous people to harm our people through the sale of unfit products. Such kind of importation is also hurting local investors and risking jobs, which have been created for Tanzanians,” Mr Mpina told reporters in Dar es Salaam. Recently, there have been reports in the social media on the ongoing crackdown on unfit products for human consumption in various parts of the country. “The operation is conducted in line with the legislation and aims at curbing illegal importation and sale of expired meat and dairy products… we are determined to protect the domestic market against smuggled livestock and their products,” he reaffirmed. During the operation, over 17 tonnes of expired animal feeds and 880 kilogrammes of unlabeled packages, which did not undergo quality assurance by responsible state organs were also confiscated. The minister explained further that 25 ,423 tonnes of animal feeds were seized as they were being smuggled outside the country and after assessing them, it was established that the smugglers had evaded taxes amounting to 4.25bn/- during the 2017/2018 fiscal year. According to Mr Mpina, the operation also seized 40,954 cattle, 165,115 goats and sheep which were being smuggled out of the country as well as 5 0,000 cattle which were illegally imported in the country. “We also confiscated 21,100 chicks and 21,480 eggs which were illegally imported into the country. All these products were destroyed by the government. “Despite Tanzania boasting of a big number of livestock, importation of meat products is estimated at 10bn/-, with milk products worth 30bn/- imported, annually,” he said. Criminal gangs behind illegal imports and exports of livestock products use unofficial entry points along the country’s porous borders to void inspections and payment of required levies. “There are also some unscrupulous traders who repackage the products in new packages to disguise the exact expiry date while others under declare the imports to evade taxes. Other incidences include importation of products which are about to expire and selling them at throw away prices,” he explained. Mr Mpina expressed concern over the products, which pose serious threat to consumers, sometimes leading to ailments like cancer. “Illegal importation of livestock products also has a negative impact in the domestic market, forcing livestock keepers to export live animals instead of processing them and creating jobs for citizens and boosting the government revenues,” he stated. Minister Mpina claimed that some livestock factories in the country were compelled to close business due to unfair competition from illegal imports, leading to declining industrial investments.