ENERGY Minister Dr Medard Kalemani yesterday sacked two engineers with the Rural Energy Agency (REA) over alleged failure to speed up the power project in Arumeru District. Dr Kalemani sacked Engineers Faustina Tuya and Dadi Eliya whom he accused of derailing the project execution. Addressing Kimnyak villagers in Arumeru District, the minister further alleged that the two engineers failed to accord Nipo Group, an Electrical, Building, Civil works and logistics contractor enough support in the project implementation. “The two engineers are no longer part of this project, they have delayed it for too long,” fumed the minister. He said since the project commissioning about four months ago, only two out of 13 villages that were earmarked for the REA project had been supplied with electricity. “This is unacceptable and the government can no longer tolerate such individuals,” said the minister, challenging those charged with the project’s execution to ensure that the remaining villages also received power within the specified time. Dr Kalemani gave Nipo group contractors a ten-day ultimatum to ensure ten villages of Longido and Arumeru districts are lit up, lest they get disqualified. He directed Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) managers for Longido and Arumeru districts to follow up on the ministry’s deadline. “If the contactor fails to finish the work on time, the government will immediately terminate the contract,” he warned, urging Longido and Arumeru District Commissioners not to relent in arrest of individuals behind the malicious destruction of electricity infrastructure. REA and its private partners are implementing the government spearheaded National Rural Electrification Programme (NREP) that spans between 2013 and 2022. Through the project, the government has injected over 800bn/- for about 1.3 million connections in rural areas, including public facilities, increasing average access to electricity in urban and rural areas from the current 24 per cent to 35 per cent by 2022. The programme is strategically relevant and fully aligned with the country’s