MOBISOL Tanzania, the pay as you-go solar has marked six years of active service provision enabling off-grid households across the country to access affordable renewable energy. “With more than 90,000 solar home systems installed since its establishment in Tanzania, Mobisol has managed to reach more than 450,000 people and has contributed to a reduction of more than 30,000 tonnes of carbon emissions annually,” said Mr Richard Bell, the Group Supervisory Board Representative for East Africa. Mr Bell was speaking in an event to appreciate and recognise excellent performance from staff and contractors who have been the backbone of the company’s success. Mobisol has over 300 full time employees and more than 1000 contractors working as sales agents, technicians and ambassadors. “Today we are celebrating our customers but most importantly our staff who have been the cornerstone for this milestone today. Mobisol will continue to invest in building and retaining its talent in an effort to further enhance customer experience,” he said. Arusha Regional Commissioner Mr Mrisho Gambo  said it would be great to see Mobisol’s products and services extended to government structures such as Kisongo prison in Arusha which would not only help in saving cost but also improve services provided at the facility. To date Mobisol Tanzania has installed 9321.06KW which is equivalent to 9.3MW. In essence this is greater than the maximum power capacity produced at Nyumba ya Mungu hydropower station (8MW) in Mwanga Kilimanjaro or even Somanga thermal power station whose production capacity is 7.5MW. Mobisol aims to complement the government’s efforts to provide reliable energy access to all citizens by offering affordable solar solutions for households, businesses and institutions. The company is focusing on solar as back-up systems during power outages in the nation’s commercial capital, while simultaneously aiming to provide solar solutions to households within Dar es Salaam that are not yet connected to the grid. Mobisol has electrified over half a million people to date and runs its own operations in Tanzania, Kenya and Rwanda, while providing its software solution “Paygee” and hardware through a growing network of B2B partnerships in other nine countries worldwide.