FASTJET Tanzania has suspended its flight operations in the country for an unspecified period, prompting the cancellation of passengers’ tickets for December and January. A statement issued by the company in Dar es Salaam on Monday said all the passengers in question would be refunded from Thursday this week. The Fastjet move comes amid the 28-day ultimatum issued by the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) before revoking its licence over lack of qualifications, that include Accountable Management. The Authority's Director General (DG), Mr Hamza Johari, said on Monday in Dar es Salaam that earlier, the airlines had only two flights (E190 Ambrea with 5H1registrtion), but one was on maintenance and the rest  were supposed to be taken back by the leaser. However, TCAA blocked the move until the corporation cleared all the debts connected with service charges, including the Authority which is supposed to be paid 1.4bn/-. He said the leaser asked the government to make sure the airline was grounded. The DG added that Fastjet Tanzania acquired one ZS plane from South Africa to continue offering the service, but TCAA banned its operations after it emerged that the plane had technical problems. 'We cannot allow the plane to be taken back to the leaser because first, it was registered here in Tanzania, meaning that the registration should be cancelled before the plane is taken away. Again, all the debts should also  be cleared,' said the DG. It was further noted that Fastjet Tanzania failed to operate after the withdrawal of the Airlines' partner (Fastjet PLC in UK) about two months ago. In the notice, TCAA directed Fastjet to submit its working plan and let the Authority assesses its working capability, including its financial capacity.` The company was also directed to stop sales and issue refunds to all clients or seeking the help from other airlines to serve the passengers. The TCAA boss added that in case Fastjet Tanzania decided to close business in the country, the company must make sure its workers’ rights were   fulfilled in compliance with the law.