FREE Pentecostal Church of Tanzania (FPCT) has urged the youngsters to present their business ideas and get benefited with skills and knowledge sharpening training, the church offers through its Livelihood City Youth Project (LCYP). Sponsored by the Swedish- based PMU InterLife Organisation, wherein about 500m/- was released for a fiveyear LCYP (2016 to 2020), the scheme is mostly focusing on those who have already introduced the business but still in need of education on how exactly to operate in a proper direction. Speaking during the ongoing third exhibition for local products in Dar es Salaam, the LCYP Coordinator Mr Godwin Mwesiga said: “The project came in after we observed that most youth have a lot of business plans but fail to implement due to lack of entrepreneurship-related skills. Some do tend to withhold their plans simply because they do not have business capitals.” He clarified that youth must be aware that seeking business capital should come after one has brainstormed an idea and observe how properly it can bring positive impacts for sustainability of his/her business and livelihood improvements in general. According to him, LCYP beneficiaries have been connected to various donors, after skill sharpening exercise, for capital acquisition. Building the saving culture and group formation was part of training contents to ease the availability of financial resources for the trained youth. It was further noted that LCYP currently operates in Temeke, Ilala and Kinondoni Municipalities wherein about 600 youths have already been reached. For suitability of the trainees’ businesses, LCYP Training of Trainers (TOTs) have been regularly visiting the groups for further skill sharpening training, something that has been resulted in rapid business expansion. One of LCYP beneficiaries, Ms Shamimu Ally whose business is food vending in Temeke, affirmed that the project helped her to be among of loan beneficiaries from the Fund set aside for youth in Temeke Municipality. “It is so because first, I did not know that being in groups eases loans acquisition from any financial institution. Second, the training facilitated formation of my groups because almost all members were beneficiaries of the project,” she said, revealing that, she currently own about 1m/- from almost zero capital of last year