LAST Saturday on 8th December 2018, at the Jakaya Kikwete convention centre in Dodoma, a national campaign launched by the Ministry of Information, Sports and Culture with the theme- ‘My Country First’, that aims at inculcating the spirit of nationalism and patriotism among Tanzanians came to an end and we are now waiting for another one in 2019. It was a spectacular event attended by a dozen of ministers and deputy ministers, parliamentarians and other dignitaries. Given that the event attention centred on preparing young people to be active citizens, something I believe should be the core value of schools and higher education institutions, and the majority of the attendees were students from surrounding Dodoma educational institutions. The year’s long campaign was significant because efforts to raise the spirit of nationalism remains crucial, fundamental and essential for the future of Tanzania and more than that, it was one of the key inputs towards fostering socioeconomic development in the country. I was pleased to be part of the celebrations in the magnificent convention centre and I learnt quite a lot. But what captured my mind most was the presence of enthusiastic young people in their school uniforms, despite being the majority and popular in the building. For me this group carries the prospects of mother Tanzania. While I acknowledge and I am optimistic that our real wealth, as a country, lies in the ambition of our people, this young generation, is phenomenal and extraordinary and they are, the way I see it, our nation’s pride and the architects of our future. Unfortunately, these young people, who are the architects of our future are faced with the problem many would call a crisis of identity. Though this was mentioned by passing at the gathering, it was not given the needed attention. The crunch is regrettably bad news on nationalism and patriotism front and this is our concern in this article today. Questions relating to Tanzanian young people identity are fundamental questions of life. This I say because I perceive and was taught that identity is central to the lives of human beings, and most importantly to our young people. That is why when you speak to them, they want our leaders to listen and connect with them as people, and help them with the things they perceive as being at the core of their being, including their happiness, future goals and aspirations. In fact as it is widely accepted within the literature, we should be sensitive enough at their adolescence stage. This is a critical period for the development of their identity and meaning. Mind you young people are not naïve. They have the feelings about themselves, the world and their place in it and are no longer, as it was in the past decades, disconnected from the world around them. I am unease about the situation because while we believe that our young people are graduating and some continue to be equipped with the civic knowledge and understanding necessary to participate effectively as citizens. Yet the fact remains that this group of people in our society who are, due to loss or confusion of their identity, suffers from the effects and intensity of the social problems they face. Especially the problems of drugs, crimes, robbery, and other family problems to mention just a few. The community needs to know that the presence of a positive identity, purpose and meaning in young people’s lives protects them against risk factors. Some commentators have commonly tended to attribute these problems to weak curricula, illiteracy, lack of counselling and lack of programmes directed towards developing citizens’ knowledge and awareness. It is okay, but there is more to it, when it comes our young people’s conception of citizenship, their perception of their identity, and their concern about their community issues. Our call is to help them know who they are-their identity and in so doing can make them make responsible decisions, care about others, contribute to our Tanzanian society, be successful in school, respect the law, be aware of their rights and be tolerant and respectful of diversity. This could lead to young people fully participating in building the best future for our country. In my view and in comparison to other countries, we have so far not been able to achieve the desirable highest standards. I am confident though about Tanzania’s future though and I am optimistic about the decades ahead. However, we need to do something now. Undeniably, if we want to be successful, we shall need as a nation, to expand and further develop our young peoples’ talents and capacity to understand citizenship, community and national identity. We have to work towards building in them the knowledge about their youth distinctiveness, discern what it means to have an identity, and why unity and diversity should be respected as they seek to devote themselves to their country. If we want to build the best future for our country, time has come to give our young people time and space so as to enable them to market their ideas and products. It is good and encouraging though that the Fifth Phase government under the leadership of President John Magufuli, who is opening up our young people avenues to participate in numerous cultural and social activities. Nevertheless, I would wish to challenge the general public that this is not only the work of the government. I want to encourage all stakeholders to take the issue of identity even more seriously with a view of developing youth into knowledgeable, active and responsible citizens. For example, at family level, their identity can be constructed on values of respect and the importance of family, and personality traits of being determined and caring and this is nowadays missing. And I want to reiterate and we have to do something because young people’s lives and vibrant potentials, shall for a long time come to an end with age, though now remain one of our most significant assets. We have to make sure that they join our journey and our success and let us not allow our young people to construct their identity on their own in isolation, meaning that creating their own destiny and what they long for without our guidance as their peers/mentors. If we are not careful enough, one day some would say I don’t really see much point in the rest of my life and I’m not really sure why I was put here. I have actually been contemplating among other things–suicide and I’m in a pretty dark place, and don’t really see my place in the world, or where I fit in or why am I supposed to be here. Such thoughts are detrimental to them as well as our society in general. This is shocking and let us be vigilant! Let us help young people to make sense of their identity and develop a sense of belonging, and establish the relationship between the current global processes and local Tanzanian experiences. This is critical and non-negotiable. Cheers!