THE government has directed Moshi Municipal Council (MMC) to ensure the construction of the new modern bus stand takes-off by next month. The directive was issued here over the weekend by the Minister of State in President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government (RALG), Mr Selemani Jafo during a working visit. “Although the government has already set aside funds for implementation of various projects that include the bus stand at Ngangamfumuni, execution of this project has not yet started despite the fact that the contractor has been found,” he said, adding that situation will no longer be tolerated. He added; “You are very lucky that you have already secured the project contractor, otherwise I would have today redirected the funds of this project to another district.” He said the challenges which led for the delay in starting the construction of the Ngangamfumuni bus stand should be addressed quickly, charging that the delays in implementing the project were denying wananchi—the taxpayers— the benefits of their taxes. “I direct you today, to ensure that construction of the new bus stand at Ngangamfumuni starts by January 20, 2019; it is the government’s intention to see development projects implemented for the benefits of wananchi, we don’t want to reallocate funds, which are meant for development processes in Moshi to other areas,” he said. Earlier in his briefings, Moshi Municipal Director Michael Mwandezi said that the project contractor has been found and that construction of the bus stand was expected to start with immediate effect. “The contraction of this modern bus stand in East Africa is about to start, we have, in collaboration with the regional commissioner’s office, secured the project contractor,” he said. Moshi Municipal Mayor Raymond Mboya said all the processes related to the construction of the new bus stand are complete. “The government has so far allocated 7bn/- for the construction of the new bus stand out of 27bn/- that is required to complete the project; we therefore request you, as the minister responsible for local governments to help us in speeding up the processes to get the remaining funds from treasury; this will help us to speed up the project execution,” he said.