MAINLAND champions Simba will need nothing but a win against Zambia’s Nkana FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today, to progress into the group stage of CAF Champions League. Nkana head into today’s final leg of the first round leading 2-1 from the first leg played at Nkana Stadium in Kitwe, Zambia last Saturday. Ronald Kampamba and Kelvin Mubanga Kampamba scored a goal each in either half for Nkana, while skipper, John Bocco pulled one for Simba. Aggregate winner of the two legged match will step into group stage of the competition. The country’s flag bearers have an away goal advantage which matters most in these kinds of matches. Simba will now need at least 1-0 win to sail through into the group stage of the continental top tier clubs championship. A defeat or draw of any kind will see Simba crash out of the championship. Ahead of the encounter, Simba Head Coach Patrick Aussems said he wants to play in front of 60,000 fans today. Aussems has told Simba supporters to fully descend at the stadium to back up their team as they eye nothing less other than a victory. “Help me to tell our fans out there that I would like to play in a fully-packed stadium this Sunday (today) because that will give us the energy we deserve on the day,” Aussems told members of the media. I n a pre-match press conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Simba goalkeeper’s coach, Mwarami Mohamed said the team is in great shape ready for the match. “Players are in upbeat mood ahead of the game and are raring to go,” Mohammed said, while also calling on Simba and all other sports lovers to flock the National Stadium and cheer their team. Club’s Media and Communication Officer, Haji Manara said Minister for Industry, Trade and Investment Joseph Kakunda will grace the match. Simba technical bench will need to avoid a display of the first round to snatch victory at home. The first round, first leg was dominated by the host, as Simba played more cautiously, seemingly to avoid conceding many goals and at the same time, attempt to hit their opponent on the break. The host won the midfield battle, where Harrison Chisala and Kenyan Duncan Otieno were dominant, keeping Simba’s playmaker Zambian international, Clatous Chama quiet almost throughout the game. His midfield partner, Jonas Mkude slightly looked active at the pack of the midfield, while James Kotei played more of a combative role. Uganda striker, Emmanuel Okwi was the most lively player for Simba on the pitch, especially in the first half, while Simba defence somewhat looked porous and for the first time in many matches the central defence partnership of Ivorian Pascal Wawa and Erasto Nyoni was constantly leaking. Nkana arrived in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday with Coach Beston Chambeshi emphasising on another efficient show against Simba in their final leg pre-group tie. “It is a big game we have ahead of us in Tanzania and we are happy that we have started the journey early so that we go and acclimatize,” Chambeshi told Zambia media on Tuesday before departing for Tanzania. “I am sure the boys know the importance of this assignment ahead of us and everyone is ready to perform,” he said. Nkana Tanzanian defender Hassan Ramadhani is targeting eliminating his former employers Simba from the tournament. Nkana squad includes, Goalkeepers: Allan Chibwe and Kelvin Malunga. Defenders: Gift Zulu, Hassan Ramadhani, Richard Ocran, Ben Bahn, Musa Mohammed and Laison Thole. Midfielders: Yannick Mulenda, Kelvin Mubanga, Chisamba Lungu, Jacob Ngulube, Duncan Otieno, Shadreck Malambo, Shadreck Musonda, Fred Tshimenga and Harrison Chisala. Strikers: Festus Mbewe, Ronald Kampamba and Walter Bwalya.