POLICE in Kilimanjaro Region have arrested a Chinese national, while attempting to smuggle Tanzanite and other minerals out of the country. Jun Fung, a businessman based in China was arrested at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) on December 22 this year as he tried to smuggle out 50m/- worth of the gemstones. Kilimanjaro Regional Police Commander (RPC), Hamis Issah said here yesterday that Mr Fung, who holds a Chinese passport bearing number ED2990821, was nabbed while trying to smuggle out the precious stones without a tax clearance from the government. “The suspect was trying to board a plane to China with our minerals without following proper government procedures,” said the RPC. He added that on the material day, the suspect was due to board a QR 1354 Qatar Airways flight to Beijing with the cargoes. According to Mr Issah, the suspect had concealed the gemstones carats inside two electrical adapters and stashed them in a suitcase, before he was intercepted at KIA. “The security personnel at the airport were able to trace the gemstones following an alarm raised by the metal detectors,” explained the RPC. The alarm compelled the security personnel to call in the services of the airport’s electrical engineers to verify what was hidden in the two adapters. According to the regional police commander, Mr Fung was held for questioning on how he acquired the gemstones and what his intentions were with them. “The suspect was later placed under the airport’s custody after he failed to avail documents to justify his travel with the gems,” added the RPC. Apart from Tanzanite, other gemstones that Mr Fung was found in possession of included Ruby, Tourmaline and Sapphire all weighing 1188.47grams. Upon verification, the minerals were packed and taken to Northern Zone’s Mineral offices in Arusha. On his part, Kilimanjaro Airport Development Company (KADCO) Acting Managing Director, Engineer Christopher Mukoma, appealed to foreign businessmen and women using the airport to desist from acts of smuggling government trophies and other gemstones, otherwise they would be arrested. Equally, he urged the businessmen to adhere to all rules and procedures, while in the country and doing their businesses. “Security at KIA is now in top gear, therefore it would not be easy for those with illmotives to execute their plans,” he warned. In 2017, President John Pombe Magufuli directed the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) to build a wall perimeter around the Mirerani Tanzanite Mine in Simanjiro District, Manyara Region. He said the decision was aimed at controlling irregularities and smuggling of tanzanite. The move, according to the head of state, also helps to add value and the price of the Tanzania’s unique gemstone in the world market.