AS the country is scheduled to conduct local government elections next year, the Police Force has assured the public that it is well prepared to ensure that the polls are carried out in a peaceful environment. The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Simon Sirro, made the assurance before President John Magufuli, who officiated at the closing ceremony of the training to 513 police officers among them 120 Assistant Inspectors and 393 Assistant Superintendent of Police, at the Dar es Salaam Police Academy, yesterday. “We know that the country will soon hold local government elections, we are organised and well prepared to ensure that all goes smoothly,” the IGP affirmed. The President said that the police operate by abiding by ethics and integrity so that the elections will be conducted in peace and harmony. “We are left with a few days into 2019, which is an election year for local government. Knowing that elections are among ways of demonstrating democracy in a country, they can sometimes be the cause of chaos; we do not want to see what has been happening in other countries during elections to occur in Tanzania,” he stated. He said the police force was among the institutions that make politicians and wananchi boast that they are safe and live harmoniously in the country. Dr Magufuli further applauded the Force for the great work it is doing in ensuring that the country is safe to live in, laws and policies are adhered to. Adding that, they should continue with the same speed of doing a commendable job for ensuring safe environment for the country since no one from outside can come to protect the country. He further stated that the advancement of technology, globalisation and the shift in the economy has changed ways in which crimes are committed causing a challenge to the police force. He added that another challenge facing the Force comes from within it. “Some officers fail to adhere to professional ethics and tarnish the image of the entire force.” Claims of officers soliciting and receiving bribes and fabrication of cases and delaying investigations are still the concern of many citizens. Emphasising that integrity and ethics should be followed by officers at all times. “I know a few officers commit such misconducts, but it is said that the odour of one rotten egg is stronger than that of ten good eggs,” remarked Dr Magufuli. He further requested the authorities to take proper action against officers committing such acts. Moreover, IGP Sirro asserted that delinquencies have declined for the past ten months, between January and October, this year, as compared to the corresponding period last year, due to police efforts of suppressing felonies in the country together with assistance from citizens. “Crime rate has declined because TPF is well equipped, as well as citizens’ collaboration in the fight against criminals,” stated IGP Sirro. Revealing statistics, he mentioned that incidences of armed robberies have decreased to 25 per cent across the country. In road safety, offences reported have also plummeted to 32.6 per cent, he mentioned. Adding that, “People killed in road accidents have also reduced to 30.8 per cent during this period.” He further pointed out that revenues collected due to traffic offences through Traffic Management System has shot up to 68.2bn/- for the period of ten months. This achievement is a result of continuous efforts by police and cooperation that the force has been receiving from members of the community.