WATER authorities across the country are set to commercialise and improve their services to boost revenues and control water losses. Addressing journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Minister for Water and Irrigation, Professor Makame Mbarawa said the authorities in the country will soon sign agreement with the ministry on how to offer services and supply more water to citizens. He said the move will basically reduce water loss and ease the monitoring of the amount of pumped water from sources to the amount sold in relation to money earned. “When I joined this ministry (last July), DAWASA’s (Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority) water sales was 8.2bn/- but as of last month, monthly sales had increased to over 10bn/-. There is high potential in measuring servants with the amount of water sold,” he said. The minister added that DAWASA was pumping 13 billion litres monthly but sold only 6.97 billion litres against the target to sell at least 9 billion. The target will be easily achieved in the new agreement between DAWASA and the ministry. Clarifying more on the agreements, the minister said goals will be set based on past month’s performance as a determinant of next month’s sale target. “Water authorities must improve and offer modified customer care services like attending phone calls from customers on time, listening and responding to customers’ queries as soon as possible because the customer is the king,” said Professor Mbarawa. He revealed that so far the government has comprehensive plans to implement the ruling party’s 2015 election manifesto to ensure that all Tanzanians have access to safe and secure water. “The plan is to have 95 per cent regional population accessing water and 90 and 85 per cent water access in towns and villages, respectively,” he said. According to him, out of the accomplished 123,000 water projects countrywide, only 85,268 were supplying sufficient water, with the rest hit by the effects of climate change. He called for members of the public to safeguard water sources by conserving the environment for the current and future generation. “Factories and other larger water consumers will be connected to the system starting next year. Pre-paid meters will be installed and we will later start reaching ordinary domestic consumers,” revealed Prof Mbarawa, adding that more big water projects were in the pipeline. He cited the 1.2tri/- project, saying the government is in final discussions with the Indian government over the ambitious project. He said another 605bn/- project will involve connection of pipeline from Lake Victoria to Tabora Region while 805bn/- will be used to connect water in various villages across the country. Some 520bn/- has been allocated to water supply in Arusha Region, said the minister.