ON March 9th this year, two powerful Kenyan politicians, Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga, publicly shook hands outside Harambee House in Nairobi. That was no ordinary handshake, observers say. This is especially considering that the hand-shakers were the shak ers and movers of Kenyan politics. These were – still are – the sitting President, Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta (57), and the country’s maverick political opposition leader, Raila Amolo O dinga (73), currently head of the National Super Alliance (NaSA). ‘ Harambee House’ is the official seat of the Kenya Presidency, also known as State House in the ‘governance trade.’ ‘ Harambee’ is a ki-Swahili clarion call to ‘All Hands on Deck,’requiring the involvement of all members of a team, a country, etc., etc. It comes as no surprise, then, that some people see the Uhuru/Raila handshake as a magic wand that can be used to wave away and out the bad, the ugly, the evil – and wave in the good… “Eight days after President Uhuru Kenyatta and his political arch-rival Raila Odinga emerged together from the terraces of Harambee House to address the nation, (Kenya) has experienced immense tranquility only witnessed after the signing of the National Accord early in 2008,” one report stated. [See ‘The golden handshake that calmed political storm in Kenya’ by Justus Wanga. DAILY NATION: March 16, 2018]. Writer Wanga went on waxing lyrical: “In the name of that handshake, the (Kenya) shilling stabilised virtually overnight, with the outlook by players in (Kenyan) Tourism already promising what some experts have christened ‘Peace Dividend’ after an inordinately protracted electioneering period. The stock market is also recovering...” For his part, the Kenya Deputy President, Mr William Ruto, said, “as a result of the deal, the Economy is on an upward trajectory. “ You all know that we can only achieve a lot as a country in terms of development if there is a good political atmosphere for implementation of projects, and citizens go about their businesses without fear,” Ruto told a group of lawmak ers in Karen on March 15, 2018. “ The Uhuru-Raila handshak e lowered political temperatures in Kenya,” Ms Martha Karua told Journalists, lauding the decision by the two as having helped to stabilise the country. “ Ordinarily, such an act ( the public handshake) would be tantamount to political suicide. He (Raila?Uhuri?) would be branded a traitor, and turned into a persona non grata in his own land,” stated Ms Karua, a former presidential candidate and powerful Minister in the Mwai Kibaki Administration ( December 2002-April 2013). O bservers say that, following the Uhuru/Raila handshake, “the brutal crack down on dissent has also stopped. No political opposition leader has been arrested after that meeting ( handshake) – and there are strong indications that charges against Mr Jimi Wanjigi, a business magnate believed to have heavily funded the opposition campaigns, would be dropped...” Really… ? Boy….! But, hang on a minute… Let’s hit the F-F (‘Fast-Forward’) button to September 18 this year, 195 days after that near-historic handshak e… ‘ Woman sues President Uhuru, Raila O dinga, over ‘ handshake deal,’’ read the headline to a news report by Miriam Musyoki, published on September 19, 2018! [ Google for it on ]. “ President Uhuru Kenyatta and O pposition leader Raila O dinga have been tak - en to Court over their March 9 (2018) handshake deal,” the posting read, elaborating that “ Researcher Moraa Gesicho moved to Court on Tuesday ( September 18, 2018) seeking to have the handshake that created the ‘Building Bridges to a Better Kenya’ initiative declared invalid… ” She also wants “the Task Force formed in May this year after the handshake between President Kenyatta and Mr O dinga suspended until the matter is heard and determined.” In May this year, the Kenyatta G overnment gazetted a 14-member Task Force comprising President Uhuru himself and the opposition leader O dinga to draw up plans ostensibly to end hostilities among Kenyans. The Task Force was also mandated to conduct consultations with citizens, religious leaders, and cultural leaders, the private sector and experts at both the County and National levels. Ms G esicho further stated that the Building Bridges to Unity Advisory Task Force created by the two leaders is secretly work ing on changing the Constitution. Sheesh! According to Ms Gesicho, President Uhuru “violated Article 131(1) (b) of the Constitution by sidestepping the Deputy President and Cabinet Secretaries (read ‘Ministers’) to reach out to Odinga to work together in governing the country. Apparently, the Constitution of the Kenya Republic“does not allow the President to seek assistance from the leader of the (political) Opposition in the governing the country. The only people mandated to assist him ( the President) in governance are the Deputy President and Cabinet Secretaries,” argues Ms G esicho, a lawyer-cum- researcher-cum- activist whom I am still trying to pin down. Cheers! [ israellyimo@gmail.com]