ON Thursday night this week, one of the SuperSport’s channels broadcast live a friendly match between the U-15 of Barcelona FC and Paris St. Germain (PSG). The youngest player in both teams was 14 and the oldest players might have been around 15, but the performance of both teams was over 100 percent better than any that has been displayed by our national soccer teams! Watching the match which was not more than 25 minutes, as each half was played for 12 minutes, I realised one thing; that it would take ages for African soccer teams to beat their European counterparts. These guys are very serious about any development under the sun, and while we continue to play politics almost in everything, including bread and butter issues, they are in the words of our former founding father, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, literaly running; in fact, they are in 100m sprint. Those children were extremely good in protecting the ball, in taking dead balls, in defending their goals, in dribbling and in economic play. They held the ball not more than necessary, and they made timely pass whenever they thought that their colleagues were better placed either to get to a better forward movement or to strike. Players from both teams were good in each and every department one was fielded, from the goalkeeper to the centre forward. Barcelona had however, an edge over their opponents in terms of skills, especially in handling the ball. Actually, they were not different from their senior brothers, which include Lionel Messi and company, they were ball jugglers, a marvel to watch. Interestingly, Barcelona players were physically smaller in their body build compared to the French opponents most of whom were either half caste or black; and that perhaps explains the current hullaballoo in France over too much black players both in the Blues (the French Fifa World Cup winning team) and in France’s soccer academies. Of course, you cannot blame black and Arab players most of whom are poor and soccer presents the opportunity of wiggling out of poverty, what with plethora of successful black French players like Paul Pogba, Ngolo Kante, Kylian Mbappe, Thierry Henry and so on and so forth as soccer idols? PSG beat Barcelona FC by two goals to nil because they were more precise, when it came to making use of the few chances they had, whenever they faced their opponents’ goal. Goals aside, the match was extremely entertaining and had tones of lessons to take home for whoever had the opportunity to watch that match. One of the lessons from the match is that when children are coached by a person who is specifically trained to coach children, and not any soccer coach for that matter, results are fast and tremendous in terms of skills, techniques and tactics. Those boys hardly looked down at the ball. Yet they moved the ball around if it was tied on their feet! They spent most of their time running around with the ball, looking up for their colleagues, always in readiness to release the ball at the appropriate time. Generally, all the boys were very good in what is called basic football, something that lacks in our topflight soccer on account of our players having learnt the game in the streets as opposed to well established and scientifically run soccer academies. Other lessons included the boys’ ability to make good use of their positions in the game, how to quickly stop their opponents in their tracks without resorting to rough play, and how to open up on the pitch in readiness to get a pass from a colleague. Between the posts, the two goalkeepers were as good as any in the world, parring off balls released without a warning. Although Barcelona were in the end beaten, but their goalkeeper was outstanding, once again proving while Spain has been having some of the safest hands in the world. What Barcelona FC and PSG have done, making the establishment and running of soccer academy part of their industry is actually what clubs like Simba and Young Africans need and ought to do instead of continuing to depend on what amounts to poaching of players from other clubs and soccer academy. The only Tanzanian club which has been doing what a professional football club is supposed to do is Azam FC who have a well-established soccer academy, complete with international standard infrastructure. Their only problem though is their habit of buying players from other clubs, within the premier league, most of whom have already proved failures. Azam need to start promoting their own youngsters from soccer academy unless they have been getting wrong children for the task. What Tanzanian soccer clubs, and in particular those currently in the premier league, need to know is that no professional soccer club in Europe does not have a soccer academy in its stable. All such clubs have soccer academy both for feeding their own teams and for business purposes, selling or sending their players on loan to other clubs. Tanzania has highly talented children and what our clubs need to do is simply provide them the opportunity to express themselves in their respective soccer academies and they would never regret. Presently everybody is talking about the present Serengeti Boys who would soon be representing the country in the forthcoming African Youth Championship. But do we know why we have such a highly talented team in our midst? The team did not fall from the sky like the biblical manna; it was forged through the few soccer academies that are existence. One can imagine if each and every club in the premier league had its own well, established and scientifically run soccer academy. Tanzania would certainly not be where it is today, in the words of second phase President Ali Hassan Mwinyi, ‘a mad man’s head with which would be barbers having been learning how to effect haircuts.’ All national soccer teams that beat Taifa Stars are teams whose countries are highly involved in soccer academy. That’s why countries like Lesotho, Botswana, Burundi and Rwanda which barely a few years ago, we used to pulverize them are no longer beatable by us having chosen the path through soccer academy. We all remember how tiny Lesotho turned inside out our players in the Africa cup of Nations (AFCON) qualification match. The more we hesitate getting into the soccer academy club, the more our clubs and national soccer teams are going to be pulverized by those who have long decided that soccer can only be better and properly learnt through soccer academy.