THIS week, China celebrated the 40th anniversary of its economic reforms that have made it the second most developed economy globally. That decision of its ruling party, the Communist Party of China for economic reforms and opening up beyond its borders forty years ago, for what is clearly today a win-win stance with the rest of the world has, in its stride, uplifted 700 million of its own people out of poverty. According to United Nations studies, the Chinese economy has grown at an annual average rate of 9.5 per cent. Today China appears to have bid farewell to problems that had hitherto affected its people, erstwhile rooted in poverty. In the words of Chinese leader, President Xi Jinping, addressing a high level meeting of his party to mark the 40th anniversary of the country’s reforms and opening up agenda, China has continuously implemented its ideology of ‘Socialism with Chinese characteristics’. Other landmarks of China’s development include, according to the Chinese leader: Adherence to people-centered development Faithfully adhering to Marxism ideology Sticking to Socialism with Chinese characteristics Taking development of the people of China as first priority and opening up to the world beyond. But as China was re-examining itself on its present and way forward in terms of development, being the world’s second leading economy which strides are winning the applause of most people in the developing world, there was a surprisingly negative attack by the world’s unipolar power, the United States of America. As most level headed people know, the developing world has, by and large, taken China as a partner in development; appreciative of its non-conditional aid and win-win stance in development cooperation. As we will see in the course of this perspective China has a very good record in terms of development cooperation with Tanzania and other countries in Africa as a case in point. There has been no complaint from any African country or others in the developing world on western propagated China’s misdeeds -allegedly to hold Africa “captive to Beijing’s wishes and demands”. To quote a news report I have on hand: “The Trump administration has announced a sharp refocus of its Africa strategy to counter what it called the “predatory” practices of China and Russia which are “deliberately and aggressively targeting their investments in the region to gain a competitive advantage”. Goes the report: “National Security adviser, John Bolton laid out the new strategy with a special aim at China accusing it of bribes, opaque agreements and the strategic use of debt to hold states in Africa captive to Beijing wishes and demands”. According to this report, critics of the Trump Administration are skeptical because it has taken two years into the Trump presidency to announce its Africa strategy, while its President is well known for his disparaging remarks about the African continent that is home for 1.2 billion people. Now the US National Security Adviser John Bolton is quoted in this report as saying: “The United States will no longer provide indiscriminate assistance across the entire continent. Countries that repeatedly vote against the United States in international forums, or take action counter to US interests, should not receive generous American foreign aid.” Going by this news report, the message is clear. African and other countries in the developing world should be aware: No American aid if you are seen shaking hands with a Chinese leader! Hahahahaha! Well, for us in Tanzania, we have been brought up with a policy all along since independence known as: Non-alignment and Self-Reliance. Since the days of the Founder President of this country, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, we were principled and non-aligned in those days of the multi polar world. This policy continues today: nobody chooses friends or enemies for us. To illustrate our freedom to choose friends, a few years after our independence, the People’s Republic of China became a close friend and ally of our country, which commenced during their reign of the Father of the Chinese nation, Chairman Mao. That friendship has blossomed and continued to this day. Actually, current Chinese leader Xi Jinping was here only a short while after assuming office. China was available during the struggle against apartheid and minority rule in Southern Africa– constructing Africa’s best-known inter-territorial railway– Tanzania-Zambia Railway (TAZARA). It can take a whole page of this newspaper to list Chinese aided projects in this country since independence. China has promoted Tanzania’s economy via major investments in infrastructure development and education. A most modern library has been built here recently and a university is in the offing. By 2017, we have had in place 600 Chinese companies in the country creating more than 83,000 jobs for Tanzanians. China has also made available $5.7 billion for our country for more than 670 projects. The Chinese policy of non-interference into the affairs of other countries has become a catalyst for development in Africa, unlike aid from some western countries, which are mostly abrasive and conditional. We have all here witnessed that Chinese aide is grounded on sincerity, affinity and tangible results. As goes the adage – a friend in need is a friend indeed. The Chinese have proved this adage all along- most remarkably because they do not sing and dance about it once they have delivered the aid!