MAINLAND champions Simba are likely to go for Nkana FC striker, Walter Bwalya, as a direct replacement for star striker, Emmanuel Okwi, who is reportedly finalising his move to South Africa’s giants Kaizer Chiefs. Reports reveal that Okwi could become Kaizer Chiefs first signing in January transfer window. Further reports suggest that the Uganda Cranes player has reliably agreed personal terms with the South African side. Reliable sources also indicate both clubs have agreed on the transfer of the player who has been instrumental in helping the Msimbazi reach the group stages of the CAF Champions League. Okwi featured in all games in the qualifying round of the lucrative competition. Kaizer Chiefs have been interested in the former SC Villa captain for long but could finally get their man. In case the deal materialises, he will join compatriot Godfrey Walusimbi, a national teammate and the two also previously played together at SC Villa. With Okwi on his way out, reports suggest that Simba are keen to track the signature of MTN Super League side Nkana FC striker Walter Bwalya. Simba have been tracking Bwalya for the past two seasons. However, according to the Z ambianfootball.co.zm, Nkana will only allow red hot striker to leave if the money is right for both parties. According to the Zam- Foot Crew sources in K i t w e ’ s Wusakile’s township, the Kalampa e x e c u t i v e s want a minimum of $300,000 for the former Forest Rangers. The left footed hitman entered the history books after he won the golden boot with 24 goals this year. And his exploits in front of goal hasn’t gone unnoticed as several clubs on the continent and Europe are after his signature. On the Z ambian scene, big spenders duo Zanaco and Zesco United are also suitors but it is the likes of TP Mazembe (DR Congo), Mamelodi Sundowns, Kaizer Chiefs (South Africa), Z amalek and Al Ahly (Egypt) that are likely to be his destination. It is also believed that Walter is ambitious and is favouring a move to Europe but the only hitch is that Euro clubs want him to attend trials but Nkana just want an outright purchase. “Remember the stories of Knowledge Musona and Collins Mbesuma. Euro clubs paid a lot of money for them and took a risk (signed them without trials) but ended failing to make the grade,” a Z amFoot Crew source. South of the equator, Walter is regarded highly and has been compared to Musona and Mbesuma. In a calendar year, only Mbesuma has a better record of 25 goals that the 24 year old.