RECENTLY there have been heated discussions in the social media on the status of democracy in Tanzania, where the Western Powers have joined the debate with new additional indicators to measure Tanzanian democracy. Some of these indicators are really amazing; and issues of ‘publication of same sex’ have been incorporated and are strongly advocated as part of democracy indicators. However, naturally the act of sexual relationship is private and there is no need for the public to know, and I believe it is therefore, not part of freedom of expression as an indicator. Globally, it is well known that democracy is measured by pertinent indicators imbedded within human rights, and for the purpose of unbiased conclusions. I would like to examine Tanzanian democracy in the following five domains. • Participation in politics and voting on political party leaders into government positions • Freedom of Expression • Access to country’s public basic human rights e.g. water supply, education and healthcare • Access to financial institutions and • Property Rights Obviously one would not expect much argument on the current status of people’s freedom of participation in voting and practicing politics in Tanzania. The system in place allows people to join any of the political parties and freely practice politics everywhere in Tanzania and that is ongoing domestically. The political parties have their Constitutions which are not influenced by the Government in power as long as they are in line with the Tanzania Constitution. But why is there so much ‘noises’ in the Fifth Phase CCM leadership? Are these noises reflecting the truth and reality on the ground on the matter of practicing politics in Tanzania? Many concerned citizens were irked by utterances from one prominent activist that- I q uote ‘CCM is taking Tanzania democracy backwards 50 years’. This pronouncement was rather annoying to anyone born before 19 70 and those who have taken the initiative to understand the political milestones gained in Tanzania. As a follow up, I did a close look up enquiry and had serious discussions with notable politicians in Tanzania, both in the opposition and ruling CCM. To summarise my findings, there is a sizeable number of q uack politicians in Tanzania and these q uack politicians “talk of demands” and do not have time to reconcile with what is happening on the ground. If they were able to record and see what is being implemented by the CCM government right now, the opposition parties could be celebrating the win. The opposition party’s main agenda during the F ourth Phase CCM government were demands for accountability, transparency, responsibility, rule of the law, anti-corruption, foreigners reaping natural resources and the citizens being reduced to beggars and recipient of foreign aid, while the country has more than enough resources to become self-reliant. Ironically the fifth phase CCM government is largely addressing the opposition parties’ manifesto, and I can conclude by saying that the ‘noises are basically’ meant to mark the existence of the opposition political parties in Tanzania, and do not hold realisable substances. The freedom of expression which is now been debated, is another domain which has been misinterpreted. Freedom does not mean chaos, lack of control and endless demonstrations disturbing economic activities. Freedom must be guided by principles of respect and constitutionally stipulated rights. Tanzania has all kinds of media outlets both government and privately owned. The government owns one radio and one TV station, and three newspapers out of more than 100 privately owned media houses. If the private media houses were really restricted as the ‘concerned’ have been advocating, the private media would not be doing business and must have closed decades ago. This is because the government owned media are not among the top ten favourites. Therefore, in reality the freedom demanded is simply chaos or aimed at drifting the public attention away from important issues of national interest. Tanzania must be rated as one of the large democracies in the world; if there were fair assessments and access and freedom of expression is very open in Tanzania. Take a count-down during election and voting of leaders, where each mature Tanzanian was/is free to be engaged in political parties’ preliminaries within the political party of his/her own preference, there are special seats for women and disabled, political parties receive a huge taxpayers’ money as stipend. Tanzania practices a five- year term in office for the president, members of parliament and councillors. There have been four smooth transitions of power guided by votes. Let us broadly examine the domain of freedom in Tanzania. Tanzanians have freedom of movement, doing business and can access land and water for economic activities. In Tanzania you simply need to speak Kiswahili to a village leader to obtain land for agriculture or fishing in any of the water bodies. In most cases if you intend to be a resident of that particular village you probably pay nothing and not produce any papers for identification. Education is completely free and healthcare is relatively free. Pregnant women, the elderly and children receive free healthcare at all levels, and there is affordable National and private health insurances to all Tanzanians to join at their own will. Tanzania has two major categories of financial institutions where people can keep and borrow money. There are commercial Banks and SACCOS, where people are free to decide which of the two is fit for their ability. Property right is another domain which is important for human economic development and there several initiatives implemented by the government and the private sector to registered property ownership. Land and Houses are largely recognised as collaterals for financial transaction, because they are legally certified in favour of the owner. Inventions and innovations are protected by law and can be used by the owner as collaterals for business transactions. Let me conclude by saying; the demand for democracy and freedom of practicing politics in Tanzania is lacking understanding of the broad definition of democracy. As Tanzanians, we must assess the status of practicing democracy using the five domains briefly discussed in this article. • The author is Dr. Boniphace Idindili, MD, MPH, PhD, who is reachable via + 255 768 414 960, email: idindili@yahoo.co.uk