BABATI District Commissioner (DC) Elizabeth Kitundu has ordered Babati Town Council to start enforcing environmental by-laws related to Lake Babati with immediate effect. The order has been issued against the backdrop of concerns that the laws were locked up in cabinets while people were freely polluting the lake and degrading the environment around it. Speaking during the launch of environmental conservation placards, Ms Kitundu expressed misgivings over the fact that the by-laws had been in place for a long time but were not applied. “Apply the by-laws; whoever violates them should be dealt with in accordance with what they stipulate. This would help us greatly in preventing and combating illegal and haphazard fishing, as well as polluting water and felling trees. Instead, people should be mobilised to plant trees and take care of them,” said the DC. The placards will be installed around the lake with support from America’s WILDAID and Rafiki Wildlife Foundation headquartered in Babati. The DC stressed the need for the public to safeguard water sources, highlighting the importance of water in everyday life to human beings, livestock, wildlife, fish and plants. She said from now onwards, the authorities won’t tolerate people who farm in or near water sources, discard waste haphazardly, and graze their livestock, emphasising that the environment should be safeguarded for the benefit of current and future generations. Ms Kitundu said her office would make close follow-ups on the performance of grassroots officials to ensure that they enforce the laws and sanctioning those who defy them. The Rafiki Wildlife Foundation Tanzania Director, Pastor Clement Matwiga, said that the placards, which would be very enlightening for foreigners and future generations, would be displayed at Himiti, Bonga, Nakwa, Bagara Ziwani, Royal Beach, Pongai and Ngarenalo, which are around the lake. He said all residents should consider themselves to be protectors of the lake and its environs, towards consolidating the tourism industry and increase the nation’s foreign currency earnings.