PACKAGING without considering the right weight as indicated on the products’ containers has been described as a major drawback for small and medium entrepreneurs against penetrating the international market. This was said here yesterday by Weights and Measures Agency’s Education, Information and Communications Officer, Mr Paulus Oluochi, saying most entrepreneurs do not comply with regulations on packaging. “Most products that are introduced by small and medium entrepreneurs have attractive packaging but they do not follow proper weight and procedures when packing their products. This is very risky when it comes to market competition with other producers,” he said. Mr Oluochi was speaking here recently during the Women Entrepreneurs (MOWE) exhibition. He said it was vital for entrepreneurs to comply with regulations on packaging their products so as to pose strong competition in the international market. He added that as the country strived to move from low income to middle income economy status, there was a need for investors and entrepreneurs to set strategies for adding value to their products. According to Mr Oluochi, the regulations on packaging required the producer to ensure that one’s product bore identification, postal and email address, telephone and fax number as well as weight of a product. He added that following the challenge on right weight of products, the WMA had embarked on an education campaign to small and medium entrepreneurs. He said WMA had so far reached 150 small and medium entrepreneurs through the education campaign in Dodoma Region. A peanut butter entrepreneur, Ms Maria Mazengo, expressed gratitude to WMA for the training, saying previously she would not care about the weight while packaging her products. “WMA has enlightened us on this very important component in packaging, which most of us (entrepreneurs) did not care about before,” she said. Ms Zuwena Omary, another small entrepreneur who makes various types of soap, said previously, she would spend time to explain to customers on weight and other components which were supposed to be on the product’s cover.