THE government reaffirmed here yesterday that it will never bow to development partners’ pressure and tough conditions that violate the national values and morals only to get financial support .Finance and Planning Minister Dr Philip Mpango gave the government position while addressing reporters on the five-month national economic growth and execution of the 2018/19 national budget. Similar stance was given yesterday by Zanzibar’s Second Vice President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi when he met with Tanzania’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations Ambassador Modest Jonathan Mero. Dr Mpango said it was true that there has been a downward trend in the release of funds that donors had pledged to support the national budget. Among other factors, the minister attributed the situation to decision by Tanzania to reject some of the conditions and limitations by some of the development partners. “They give us so many uncalled for conditions before they release fund, and some of the conditions have negative impact on the national growth and productivity,” argued Dr Mpango. He said the development partners pledged to contribute 2.6tri/- to the government coffers in the 2018/19 national budget but as of November this year only 498.5bn/- of the amount had been released. “The contribution is only 54 per cent of their total pledges. Had they honoured their pledges they would have disbursed 928.7bn/- as of November, this year,” said Dr Mpango He added: “Although there are other reasons like policy changes in their respective countries and economic matters as well but as the nation we must not agree any support that goes against our values and virtues,” “Time is up for Tanzania to get rid of donor dependent budget because it is some kind of slavery that endangers our pride and national dignity,” said Dr Mpango. He called on Tanzanians to work hard and feel proud of paying tax that matches their income to enable the government to collect more revenues to finance the country’s development budget instead of relying on donors. Meanwhile, DAILY NEWS Reporter reports from Zanzibar that Ambassador Iddi said despite the importance of aid in the development of Zanzibar, but any conditional aid that “drives us towards legalising practices that are against our culture and norms will never be accepted.” “We have our traditions, culture, norms, and national values, we cannot damage our culture on the pretext of foreign aids,” Ambassador Iddi told Ambassador Mero. Ambassador Mero was in the Isles for a familiarisation visit and paid a courtesy-call to Ambassador Iddi at his Vuga Street office in Stone Town. Their discussions, among other issues, dwelt on international relations and development support from foreign states. Following recent move by authorities to crackdown on growing homosexual practices, some foreign countries have raised concerns, describing the fight against homosexuality as violation of human rights. Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) persons and homosexuality as well as same-sex sexual acts in Tanzania are socially taboo topic and criminal offences, punishable by law. The second Vice-President said the country has been in good relations with foreign nations and the UN for many years, and “We appreciate the ongoing development support from all our partners.”