LACK of public dispensaries in 139 villages of Rukwa Region has affected the efforts by the government and other stakeholders to improve maternal, newborn and child healthcare. Equally, three districts of Nkasi, Kalambo and Sumbawanga lack modern district health facilities, whose construction is estimated at a total of 4.5bn/- Latest statistics show that only 200 villages out of 339 have public dispensaries, subsequently 15 per cent of pregnant women are compelled to deliver at home. Reacting, Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Joachim Wangabo admitted that maternal and infant mortality is still a big challenge in the region and that it needs to be addressed seriously. “Currently, Rukwa Region continues with its efforts of completing 66 unfinished buildings housing public dispensaries which are in different stages of construction, as well as educating people on how to volunteer on constructing dispensaries in every village and health centre in every ward,” added the RC. In a bid to ensure that maternal, newborn care and child health is improved, the government is implementing its plan of rehabilitating and expanding health centres and construction of three modern district hospitals in a budget of 4.5bn/-. “We have already received over 8.6bn/-, out of which over 4.1bn/- is meant for the expansion and rehabilitation of nine health centres while 4.5bn/- will be used for the construction of three modern hospitals,” added the RC. Speaking on Uzazi Salama -- Rukwa Safe Motherhood Project, a consortium of three International Non-Governmental Organisations, Plan International, Jhpiego and Africare, Mr Wangabo said the project continues with commitment towards contributing to the ultimate objective of reducing maternal and newborn mortality and morbidity in underserved areas in the region. On his part, the Rukwa Regional Medical Officer (RMO), Dr Boniface Kasululu said during a period of nine months from January to September this year, 39 pregnant women died due to maternal complications, which is equivalent to 97 deaths per each 100,000 live births. In the same period, 537 infants died, which is equivalent to 14 deaths in 1,000 live births. “The death rate is still high in the region, which is unacceptable,” noted the RMO. Dr Kasululu further noted that countrywide, about 50 per cent of maternal deaths occur within 24 hours after delivery, while a total of 8,500 deaths are reported annually, ranking Tanzania among the top ten countries that account for over 60 per cent of maternal deaths. The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates that one woman dies of maternal complication every hour. Likewise, in efforts to improve provision of quality healthcare services in hospitals, health centres and dispensaries in three districts in Rukwa Region, Uzazi Salama has donated medical equipment valued at over 211.1m/-. The Plan International Director of Operations, Mr Paul Lusato said the donation will benefit a total of 198 health facilities, including three hospitals, 19 health centres and 176 dispensaries across the Rukwa Region.