ONCE again, last Sunday, the prison’s gates were graciously opened to give way to the more than one thousands prisoners who qualified for Presidential reprieve to mark the 57th anniversary of Tanganyika’s independence. The well behaved prisoners earned this early immediate release after thorough scrutiny to their behavioral change and readiness to live as law abiding citizens in their communities. Meanwhile more than four thousand prisoners had their sentences been reduced and would be released after spending a portion of their sentences. The Constitution clearly provides for, in Article 45 that the President has that prerogative of awarding an amnesty to any deserving convicted prisoner with or without any conditions. This does not give him any limitations and he can do it to any convicted prisoner whomever he feels like granting that amnesty. The historical background of this prerogative originates from the colonial legacy embodied in the concept of Sovereign-the King/Queen-who welded lots of authority over his/her subjects. The concept did not consider when such pardons could be given –but they have been ordinarily been issued during ‘State Occasions” in this part of the world, in some cases for political reasons. Timing was and has been the norm. The concept also did not consider victims of crimes or witnesses whose lives would ordinarily be placed in jeopardy with the ex-convicts freely roaming the streets, some with avenging attitudes. Citizens, like convicts, were treated as subjects of the Crown. Once given pardons, the convicts were and are still considered not to have committed any offence at all. It is like they ‘successfully appealed. In the US, the Constitution places restrictions on the power of Presidents. For example, Presidents cannot pardon relatives or spouses. In our case, it is almost predictable that in every national festival prisoners would be considered for such presidential amnesties thus providing the necessary incentive to the well behaved prisoners particularly those who display a kind of remorse while incarceration. Last year during the same occasion, 1,828 prisoners received immediate releases from prisons on Presidential amnesty while 6,329 had their sentences reduced and could leave the prisons in different days. According to Prison Officials, such amnesties are considered as means of reducing overcrowding of prisons. But this is only a temporary measure as amnesties have been there since time in memorial yet overcrowding is still there. Unfortunately some of those prisoners released last year had spend most of their lives in prisons and did not know where to go on release; resulting into committing new crimes and sent back to prisons within the same month! I hope this time there must have been some good coordination with the all stakeholders in seeing to it that such released prisoners are well resettled in their places of domiciles. It is unfortunate that most of these released prisoners land into hostile communities which do not believe that such prisoners have actually been reformed. The local Regional and District Security Committees need to oversee the resettling of these offenders. There are those people who are doubtful as to whether these prisoners receiving amnesties have effectively changed their criminal attitudes as anticipated! Have they reformed or do they pretend to have been rehabilitated so as to get an earlier release from prison? And how do they reintegrate with the community after spending so many years in prison? Is there any release programme before being discharged? These are million dollars questions as so many people have doubts on these prisoners being rehabilitated. The first to doubt on this is the Police Force which considers the released prisoners to be the first suspects to any crime committed in their vicinities. Furthermore even Correctional Officers in their Regional or International Conferences keep on reminding on their failure to attain acceptable rehabilitation success rates! This is supported by the rate of recidivism of this country running to 47 percent which casts doubt on the whole process of rehabilitation and social reintegration of the released prisoners. There seems to be no mechanism for the released prisoner’s re-entry to the community and there is no assistance to kick start for their new lives. We have heard from the recently released prisoners on their plight, others demanding assistance on how to start the new living after imprisonment. This could convince the Parole Board to initiate a “gradual controlled release programme” as a smooth way of transition for the reintegration of offenders with the community. It is suggested that the presidential amnesties need to be channeled to the Parole Board. Yes but Parole Board needs to be given autonomy to operate as a quasi judicial body with authority to release or reject prisoners to go on parole. All along, this haphazard way of releasing prisoners without having a due process of monitoring and offering assistance to them has been the main failure of the acclaimed rehabilitation process of offenders. This should not be confused with the police supervision! Maybe with the introduction of Private Public Partnership with industrial institutions, Prisons should consider training, monitoring and supporting of released prisoners to be one of the conditions of partnership. Prisoners need to be inclusively integrated into economic actives that were once denied to them, forcing them to opt for criminal activities. Imagine a horde of criminals being let free without due process of resettling them through good mechanism of ‘after care’ or ‘half way house’ system in place. Definitely you are sending a problem to the community or else it is a good recipe for recidivism from these misguided loose missiles! A paradigm shift is very much needed to the inherent rehabilitation process emanating from retributive justice. It is not just possible to manage rehabilitation and social reintegration of prisoners through retributive justice. Restorative justice with new Corrections’ Risk Management approach is a necessity for the reformation of offenders.