SCIENTISTS under the Geological Society of Tanzania (GST), are conducting research on a strange object that fell somewhere in Kagera Region on November 27, this year, believed to have been a meteorite. The GST Chief Executive Officer, Professor Abdulkarim Mruma, told the ‘Daily News’ in an interview that this might be the second time Tanzania is experiencing a meteorite after another one was discovered in Mbozi, Songwe Region, about 90 years ago. “More research is still ongoing to determine the exact location of the meteorite and its dimension; this might be the second time Tanzania is experiencing a meteorite after another one was discovered in Mbozi, Songwe Region in the 1930s.” The Mbozi meteorite is three metres long and weighs an estimated 25 tonnes, or almost twice that of Willamette meteorite. The Mbozi meteorite is among ten heaviest meteorites in the world and the second heaviest in Africa. The Willamette meteorite is the largest meteorite ever to be found in the United States, weighing 15 tonnes.” he said. Some residents of Kagera Region reported that they saw a huge bright object cross the sky at around 9.30 pm on November 27, this year. Some thought it was a bomb blast, while others thought that another earthquake had occurred. However, the Kagera Regional Commissioner, Brig General Marco Gaguti, said the huge blasting sound could not be associated with any military bomb. “People should remain calm and continue with their routine activities. So far we don’t have any reports linking the meteorite with rocket rangers,” said Mr Gaguti. According to Professor Mruma, meteorites are believed to originate in the asteroid belt between the planets of Mars and Jupiter. “A meteorite may range in size from less than a gramme to more than 60 tonnes. A meteorite is a chunk of rock or iron usually from a meteoroid or asteroid which pass through Earth’s atmosphere and survives impact with the ground. “Most meteorites originate from larger asteroid bodies residing in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. Collisions and gravitational interactions send these pieces of asteroids into the inner solar system where the Earth travels. Our planet collides with thousands of small pieces of this material every day. Some of these are the sporadic brighter shooting stars and fireballs that can be seen at night. Several larger pieces are believed to collide with the Earth every day. This is the type of event that produces meteorites that may later be found on the ground, “he said. He elaborated further that there are three basic types of meteorites - the irons, stony, and the stonyirons. Meteorites that are recovered after being observed as they transit the atmosphere and impact the Earth are called meteorite falls. All others are known as meteorite finds. As of August 2018, there were about 1,412 witnessed falls that have specimens in the world’s collections. As of 2018, there are more than 59,200 well-documented meteorite finds.