THE High Court in Arusha yesterday sentenced  a prominent Arusha-based advocate, Median Mwale, to a total of 144 years imprisonment after convicting him of 28 fraud counts in a criminal trial involving over 12bn/- transactions. In addition, Judge Issa Maige ordered the advocate to either pay a total of 200m/- as fine or go to jail for another ten years in default of paying the fine having convicted him of two more money laundering charges. Mwale was sent to prison as he could not pay the fine in question. Delivering the jail terms on fraud counts, the judge sentenced Mwale to five years for conspiracy, three years to each of five counts of forgery charged under Section 337 of the Penal Code and seven years to each  of the 16 counts of forgery charged under Section 338 of the Penal Code. Judge Maige also sentenced the advocate to two years imprisonment  for each of two counts of uttering false documents and two years in jail for one count of possession of properties suspected to have been unlawfully acquired. However, the judge ordered the sentences provided in the fraud counts to run concurrent. This means that the advocate will remain behind bars for a maximum of seven years only. When the judge was sentencing Mwale on these categories of offences, he took into consideration of the time he spent in prison. Since the advocate remained in remand for seven years, the judge deducted such period from the number of years sentenced, resulting in his immediate release from prison. But Mwale could not be released as ordered because the punishment on money laundering counts was provided separately. It means that Mwale will get out of prison if he pays the 200m/- fine. Delivering the sentence, the judge also took into consideration a number of mitigating factors, notably Mwale’s decision to plead guilty to the offences he was charged with. Such a move, the judge said, saved the court’s time, costs and other inconveniences as the prosecution was expected to call a total of 59 witnesses from the country and outside Tanzania. Furthermore, Mwale’s decision to plead guilty to the offence has an adverse impact on him as an advocate. On November 26, 2018, Mwale who was defended by Advocate Augustine Shio surprised the court as it was preparing to start hearing the case in a two week special session when he decided to charge the plea of not guilty. As a result, the prosecution team led by Principal State Attorneys Oswald Tibabyekomya and Hashim Ngole requested leave of the court to amend the charge sheet in order to meet the demands by the accused person. The court granted the prosecution’s request. Mwale thereafter pleaded guilty to all 30 counts of conspiracy, forgery, uttering false documents, money laundering and possession of properties suspected to have been unlawfully acquired and admitted to all the facts. The prosecution tendered 19 exhibits to support the facts admitted. Reading the amended charge sheet, the prosecution told the court that on different dates between November, 2009 and February, 2011 in Nairobi city, Kenya and  Arusha city  in Tanzania, the accused conspired with other persons to commit an offence of money laundering. It is alleged that between December, 2009 and January, 2011 within the same places, for purposes of disguising the illicit origin, Mwale and Gichana transmitted United States Treasury cheques amounting to 5,296,327.25 US dollars, through a bank account. The account was maintained by Moyale Precious Gem & Minerals Enterprises at CRDB Bank, Meru Branch, while Mwale and Gichana knew or ought to have known that the said cheques were proceeds of forgery, which is a predicate offence. 