SECOND Vice-President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi has said that a strong Chamber of Commerce is needed in the country to partner with the government to accelerate development process towards a strong economy, job creation, increased production and exports. He made the observation here yesterday when addressing delegates attending the 11th annual general meeting of the ‘Zanzibar National Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (ZNCCIA)’ at the Golden Tulip hotel, Stone Town. Mr Iddi said the strength of Chamber of the Commerce plays a great role in economic development because business, industries and agriculture remain the engine of economic growth. “You are the umbrella of the people engaged in trade and production. Have a strong leadership, be innovative, and work hard in collaboration with the government which highly needs you,” Ambassador Iddi said at the well-attended ZNCCIA meeting in which members discussed plans to grow and how to overcome challenges. He said the strength of the chamber of commerce should also be reflected or extended in transforming and improving small enterprises and entrepreneurs to make a meaningful contribution to the welfare of the youth engaged in economic activities. Mr Iddi urged ZNCCIA to increase its members and ensure they are active as the chamber’s President Mr Taufiq Salum Turkey informed the audience that, “Our leadership took over with challenges, including lack of funds to run the organisation. We are back on track with a reviewed constitution and support from development partners who had stopped funding our projects.” The deputy Minister for Trade and Industries Mr Hassan Khamis Hafidh said the government is looking forward to see an active ZNCCIA after reforms and that his office’s doors are widely open should the chamber needs any assistance. He said his office and other stakeholders were getting disappointed with the chamber’s performance and “I was getting difficulties in defending you in the House/Parliament. We are happy to hear that we now have a new chamber!” Mr Hafidh said ZNCCIA was a genuine partner with government in promoting trade, production and exports, promising that the government would take steps to further assist the business community to improve economic activities.