SIMBA Head Coach Patrick Aussems commended his players for displaying a brave performance during their 4-0 win over Mbabane Swallows at the Mavuso Sports Centre in Manzini on Tuesday. The match was characterised by a devastating hailstorm and a four breeze at the venue that saw visiting Simba ease past hapless and lacklustre Mbabane Swallows in the CAF Champions League preliminary round second leg tie. Swallows were already trailing by 4-1 from the first leg tie loss at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam a week ago. Simba progress into the first round of the tournament by 8-1 aggregate. So excruciating was pain of a sad ending to the home team’s two year marvellous flight in continental tournaments which had seen them reach two successive group stages of the CAF Confederation Cup and CAF Champions League. With so much of pregnancy of hope that Swallows would dramatically turn the tables on the visiting Tanzania outfit just like they did against the likes of Orapa United of Botswana and Congo Brazzaville’s AC Leopards, lady luck however evaded them as they soon found themselves 0-2 down in the opening half. A first half brace from Simba’s creative midfielder Clatous Chama and second half goal apiece by Emmanuel Okwi and Meddie Kagere, saw Simba snapping up an 8-1 aggregate victory, to progress into the first round of the continental top tier club championship. And, so exciting was Simba’s display, dishing out another football lesson to the Swallows of Mbabane that left their fans distraught at the fall from grace after twice successfully reaching the group stages of the CAF Inter-club competitions in the last two years. Even so pleased, was Simba tactician, Aussems who said his charges deserved a sweeping victory after displaying a great performance. And, according to the Swazi Observer, the Belgian coach hailed his charges for showing commitment throughout the encounter despite their 4-1 first leg win. “I am happy and proud of my players for displaying a great performance and not being carried away despite our big win during the first leg. We came here for nothing other than a win and we controlled the game well. “We never lost focus at any stage of the match. We knew Swallows would open spaces since they wanted to reduce the score line hence we managed to crack their defence. “We will continue working hard in the next round since our mandate is to reach the group stages of the competition,” he said. On his side, Swallows Assistant Coach, Musa Manyatsi attributed the loss to poor lapse in concentration. He was speaking on behalf of stand in Coach, Kinnah Phiri. “We were punished by the opposition after conceding soft goals due to lack of concentration. We wanted an early goal which could have boosted our morale, but the opposition capitalised on our mistakes and punished us. “We will take the positives from this match to prepare for the future,” he said. The capital city giants were handed an 8-1 aggregate drubbing by the East African side which shattered their dreams of advancing to the first round of the continent’s premier club competition. And in the club’s official page, Mbabane Swallows conceded the defeat, saying they lost to a good team. Congratulations to Simba for advancing through to the next stage as they humbled our team again 4-0 (8-1) on aggregate …Goodluck on your Caf journey, lost to a very good team. Dream big you will go far. We love you… Till we meet again,” reads the statement. Simba’s shareholder, Mohammed Dewji Mo tweeted ‘Hongera Simba ya Africa. Let’s move on and prepare for the upcoming game! Mungu atutangulie. Alhamdulillah. The Msimbazi Reds will now face winner of the match between Zambia’s Nkana FC and UD Songo from Mozambique, who were due to face off yesterday in the return leg in Maputo. Nkana won 2-1 in the first leg match.