DEFENDING champions, Simba returned to the domestic league action w ith a sound note after defeating K MC 2-1 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. New look Simba destroyed KMC with superbly converted two early goals and held on to claim the vital win at the end of thrilling game. It was a crucial win for Simba as it helped the club to bridge gap with the Premier League leaders, Young Africans from 17 to 14- point difference . It was the match also witnessed the fine display from the newlyrecruited Burkinabe, Zana Coulibaly, who proved himself a worthy replacement to Shomari Kapombe who is still nursing injuries. KMC, one of the threatening league debutants, lost composure after conceding two quick goals in the 11th and 14th minutes of the game. Adam Salamba who opened the score-sheet with a brilliant goal in the 11th and Said Ndemla who added the second three minutes later, were the stars of the first half for the defending champions. Salamba put his side in the lead in the 11th minute after superbly finishing Haruna Nyinzoma’s cross inside the box and tapped it into the back of the net leaving KMC goalkeeper Jonathan Nahimana and his defenders stunned. After the goal Simba continued to mount attacks on their opponents with Ndemla and Muzamir Yassin taking the command in the middle of terrain while speedy Rashid Juma and Shiza Kichuya charged from flanks. Their efforts paid off in the 14th minute when Rashid Juma dribbled past three KMC defenders and charged into the box before releasing a pass to Ndemla who released a blockbuster from outside the box which beat KMC goalkeeper. The win helped Simba to close a massive gap with leaders and traditional rivals Young Africans, though Simba still remained third in the league table with 30 points from 13 matches, while Yanga sit top of the table on 44 points from 16 outings, four points above second placed Azam FC, who have played 16 matches. KMC led by veteran and experienced striker Elias Maguli struggled to penetrate the Simba defence, manned by Juuko Murshid, Paul Bukaba , Asante Kwasi and the newly signed Coulibaly Zana, but they failed to score until the end of the first half. However KMC tried several moves through Kelvin Kijiri whose long range shot in the 30th minute went off target and later on 33rd minute Emmanuel Mvuyekure missed a good chance after his shot was blocked and cleared by Asante Kwasi. The two sides went into the break with Simba leading 2-0 and in the resumption, KMC came back a bit rejuvenated and managed to score the consolation goal through James Msuva in the 67th minute. Simba Belgium tactician who decided to rest some of his key players ahead of the CAF Champions League encounter this weekend against Zambia Nkana FC introduced in Cletous Chama for Rashid, Meddie Kagere for Salamba and James Kotei. Simba and Mtibwa Sugar were sidelined for the past few weeks as they were facing CAF inter-club championship assignments. Meanwhile, Zambia’s Nkana FC have arrived in Dar es Salaam with coach Beston Chambeshi emphasizing on another efficient show against Simba SC in their 2018/2019 CAF Champions League first round, final leg pre-group tie. Nkana head into Sunday’s final leg in Dar es Salaam leading 2-1 from the first leg played at Nkana Stadium in Kitwe last Saturday. “It is a big game we have ahead of us in Tanzania and we are happy that we have started the journey early so that we go and acclimatise,” Chambeshi told Zambia media on Tuesday before departing for Tanzania. “I am sure the boys know the importance of this assignment ahead of us and everyone is ready to perform.”