IF GM (genetically modified) foods were made yesterday, do everyone a favour. Think again. Even a very casual online perusal will tell you that “humandirected genetic manipulation” of food began with the domestication of plants and animals through artificial selection at about 10,500 to 10,100 BC. Now that’s way into the unknown. We can only figure out that the people who didn’t even know fashion wear -- apart from fig leaves, of course -- went through process of selective breeding, in which organisms with desired ‘traits’ (and thus with the desired genes) are used to breed the next generation and organisms lacking the trait are not breeding, is a precursor to the modern concept of genetic modification (GM). With the discovery of DNA in the early 1900s and various advancements in genetic techniques through the 1970s, it became possible to directly alter the DNA and genes within food. The first genetically modified plant was produced in 1983, using an antibiotic-resistant tobacco plant. Genetically modified microbial enzymes were the first application of genetically modified organisms in food production and were approved in 1988 by the US Food and Drug Administration. In the early 1990s, recombinant chymosin was approved for use in several countries. Cheese had typically been made using the enzyme complex rennet that had been extracted from cows’ stomach lining. Scientists modified bacteria to produce chymosin, which was also able to clot milk, resulting in cheese curds. The first genetically modified food approved for release was the Flavr Savr tomato in 1994 -- which was developed by Calgene and was engineered to have a longer shelf life by inserting an ‘antisense gene’ that delayed ripening. China was the first country to commercialize a transgenic crop in 1993 with the introduction of virus-resistant tobacco. In 1995, Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) Potato was approved for cultivation, making it the first pesticide producing crop to be approved in the US. Other genetically modified crops receiving marketing approval in 1995 were: canola with modified oil composition, Bt maize, cotton resistant to the herbicide Bromoxynil, Bt cotton, glyphosate-tolerant soybeans, virus-resistant aquash, and another delayed ripening tomato. With the creation of golden rice in 2000, scientists had genetically modified food to increase its nutrient value for the first time. By 2010, 29 countries had planted commercialized biotech crops and a further 31 countries had granted regulatory approval for transgenic crops to be imported. The US was the leading country in the production of GM foods in 2011, with twenty-five GM crops having received regulatory approval. In 2015, 92% of corn, 94% of soybeans, and 94% of cotton produced in the US were genetically modified strains. The first genetically modified animal to be approved for food use was Aqu Advantage salmon in 2015. The salmon were transformed with a growth hormoneregulating gene from a Pacific Chinook salmon and a promoter from an ocean pout enabling it to grow year-round instead of only during spring and summer. In April 2016, a white button mushroom (Agaricus bisporus) modified using the CRISPR technique received de facto approval in the United States, after the USDA said it would not have to go through the agency’s regulatory process. The agency considers the mushroom exempt because the editing process did not involve the introduction of foreign DNA. The most widely planted GMOs are designed to tolerate herbicides. By 2006 some weed populations had evolved to tolerate some of the same herbicides. Palmer amarath is a weed that competes with cotton. A native of the southwestern US, it travelled east and was first found resistant to glyphosate in 2006, less than ten years after GM cotton was introduced . All that may sound like Greek, we may say. But it’s science which some of out scientists ganisms are generated and tested in the laboratory for desired qualities. The most common modification is to add one or more genes to an organism’s genome. Less commonly, genes are removed or their expression is increased or ‘silenced’ or the number of copies of a gene is increased or decreased. Once satisfactory strains are produced, the producer applies for regulatory approval to field-test them, called a “field release”. Fieldtesting involves cultivating the plants on farm fields or growing animals in a controlled environment. If these field tests are successful, the producer applies for regulatory approval to grow and market the crop. Once approved, specimens (seeds, cuttings, breeding pairs, etc.) are cultivated and sold to farmers. The farmers cultivate and market the new strain. In some cases, the approval covers marketing but not cultivation. According to the USDA, the number of field releases for genetically engineered organisms has grown from four in 1985 to an average of about 800 per year. Cumulatively, more than 17,000 releases had been approved through September 2013. In the early 1990s, The New York Times wrote, “... in the early 1990s, Hawaii’s papaya industry was facing disaster because of the deadly papaya ringspot virus . Its single-handed saviour was a breed engineered to be resistant to the virus. Without it, the state’s papaya industry would have collapsed. Today, 80% of Hawaiian papaya is genetically engineered, and there is still no conventional or organic method to control ringspot virus.” The Americans approved the GM cultivar in 1998. In China, a transgenic papaya was developed by South China Agricultural University and was first approved for commercial planting in 2006; by 2012 a good 95% of the papaya was grown in one of the provinces, and 40% in another. I beg to differ with people who belittle and disown GM as detrimental to the public to show us their personal research findings, because, if one lacks data, one should not talk and advance baseless theories, which are geared to confuse the public. Cell: 0712122128 Email: shanimpinga@gmail.com