THE medical and surgical team responsible for the separation of Tanzanian conjoined twins (Maryness and Anisia) is scheduled to conduct the operation tomorrow at King Abdullah Children Specialist Hospital in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The team comprising 32 specialist doctors, surgeons, technicians and nursing staff will participate in the process expected to take about 13 and half hours. The twins born at St Thereza Omukajunguti Health Centre in Missenyi District of Kagera Region on January 29, this year, were airlifted to Saudi Arabia for the procedure in July from Muhimbili National Hospital after the Saudi Arabia government agreed to foot the medical bills for the twins’ separation. The decision to separate the twins came after a meeting of the members of the medical and surgical team held on Thursday under the leadership of the Advisor to the King, the General Supervisor of King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre and the head of the medical and surgical team in the separation of Siamese twins, Dr Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz Alrabiah. Dr Alrabiah said in a press statement that the twins or the two children are linked together in the lower chest, abdomen and pelvis area, each of them has one bottom extremity and they share a third lower extremity, in addition, they share the Liver, Intestines, Urinary and Reproductive system. He pointed out that the medical and surgical team after discussing the situation of the twins, they expect that the success rate will be 60 per cent after a process and that it will be implemented through nine stages with the participation of 32 specialist doctors, surgeons, technicians and nursing staff. Dr Abdullah Alrabiah commended the generous humanitarian initiative of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud and His Royal Highness the Crown Prince. He also prayed to Allah Almighty to crown this operation with success so that it will add to the record of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s achievements in the programmes of separation of twins, which reached to 47 cases including this case. On the other hand, the Executive Director of Health Affairs at the Ministry of National Guard, Dr Bandar bin Abdulmohsen Al-Qenawi, expressed his gratitude to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud, King of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, for their unlimited support to the Health sector in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and their keenness to develop the sector so that it raises to the future aspirations in accordance with the Country’s vision 2030, that seeks all the good for the Country and the Nation in all sectors. He also expressed his appreciation to His Royal Highness Prince Khalid bin Abdul Aziz bin Ayyaf, the Minister of National Guard, who was following up all the procedures that have been taken to receive the twins to conduct the 47th operation of Siamese twins. The twins and their mother, Jonesia Jovitus were accompanied by a paediatric surgeon and a nurse who was taking care of the infants at Muhimbili National Hospital to the Kingdom for medical treatment on July 8, 2018. Muhimbili National Hospital Paediatric Surgeon, Dr Zaitun Bokhary, who had accompanied the twins to Saud Arabia, told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in September, this year, that the twins underwent intensive medical checkups and tests and the medical experts at the hospital were confident of conducting a successful separation procedure.