BANK of Tanzania (BoT) will launch a common shared platform for payment system next month to promote use of electronic payments. The single payment platform will also enhance the central bank capacity for oversight of the payment systems. BoT Acting Director of the National Payment Systems, Lucy Shaidi, told reporters the new shared platform to be known as Tanzania Instant Payment Systems (TIPS) will promote use of electronic payment and boost financial inclusion. Speaking at a training seminar for business reporters organised by the BoT, she said yesterday the key objective of the new shared platform include promotion of interoperability of digital financial services among payment service providers. That would be made by implementing an efficient interoperable platform that can be accessed equally by all providers. Another key objective of the new shared platform development of modern infrastructure that offers capabilities and flexibilities to add additional use cases to address market demands, she said. The new common shared platform will enhance capability for oversight of payment related data and promote use of electronic payments and hence reduce cash usage, she said. Ms Shaidi said the new platform would create enablers for business environment by introducing interoperable instant payments to persons, businesses and government. It will also allow government programmes such as benefits schemes like TASAF, to be offered to the whole population from a single platform. Plans for the new shared platform for payment system comes as the society grows increasingly diverse with most people owning mobile phones while the number of bank account holders remaining low. According to latest Finscope survey, 65 per cent of Tanzanians have access to financial services being an increase from 50 per cent in 2013 boosted mainly by uptake in mobile phones. The survey indicates that 63 per cent of adult Tanzanians own a mobile phone and 80 per cent live in a household with a mobile phone.