THE MWANANCHI Newspaper of Tuesday, 4th December 2018; carried the following eye-catching Headline on its front page: “MSEKWA AMKOSOA DR. BASHIRU”. The relevant story was printed on page 4 thereof, which correctly reproduced my comments in reply to a question which I was asked by a journalist working for that paper; in which I had criticized the methodology which was used by the CCM Secretary-General, Dr Bashiru Ally, in summoning one Mr Bernard Membe to his office. I certainly had a good reason for doing so; which is basically that All persons in authority, should follow proper procedures in issuing their orders, of whatever nature or purpose. And indeed, the primary purpose and intent of today’s article, is to elaborate on that broad assertion. The word “order” as used in this context, means: ‘a command, or instruction, given by a person in authority, which the recipient is expected to obey’. This, in fact, is a binding rule in all matters pertaining to the doctrine of ‘good governance’; as will be elaborated below. Remembering Mwalimu Nyerere’s teachings . This is a convenient opportunity to make reflections on some of Mwalimu Nyerere’s teachings, as documented in his TUJISAHIHISHE document published way back in May, 1962; in which Mwalimu Nyerere wrote as follows:- “Kanuni moja ya TANU inaseme hivi: Nitasema kweli daima, fitina kwangu mwiko”. Lakini bado tunao wanachama ambao ni wafitini wakubwa, na ni wa aina mbali mbali. Wengine humuona mwenzao anafanya kosa. Badala ya kumwambia pale pale kwamba atendalo ni kosa, wananyamaza kimya. Lakini hawanyamazi kabisa! Bali watakwenda kumteta katika vikundi vya sisi siri. Mateto haya si ya kumsaidia mwenzao hata kidogo, ni ya kumdhuru! Hii ni aina moja ya fitina”. Thus, as a keen student of Mwalimu Nyerere, and ‘armed to the teeth’ with his teachings, I promptly responded to the said MWANANCHI journalist in the way I did. That is to say, being convinced that Dr Bashiru Ally had committed a mistake in his methodology of issuing instructions to Mr Bernard Membe, any attempt at hiding the fact of that mistake from the said journalist who called to ask for my opinion, would have amounted to ‘fitina’ on my part, namely that of “kunyamaza kimya”, by failing to tell the CCM Secretary General that, in my opinion, what he has done is procedurally wrong. I did the same in relation to Minister Kangi Lugola And, in fact, this is not the first time that I have expressed my disapproval of such deviations from proper, established procedures by some of our leaders. In my article which was published in this same column on 26th July, 2018; I took issue with Minister for Home Affairs, Hon. Kangi Lugola, regarding his similarly disturbing nature of issuing orders to the Inspector general of Police, through pronouncements made at public meetings. That is when I pointed out that such methodology was not only procedurally improper, but was also an unethical leadership conduct. In terms of the requisite interpersonal relationships between leaders and their followers; a matter which was also highlighted in yet another piece of Mwalimu Nyerere’s teachings, in the following words:- “Uongozi maana yake siyo kuamuru watu kutenda hili wala lile. Uongozi maana yake ni kuzungumza na kushauriana na watu, ukiwaeleza vizuri na kuwashawishi, yaani kuwa pamoja nao, na Kutambua kwamba wao ni sawa na wewe”. (Nyerere: Binadamu na Maendeleo). Established conventions in matters of governance In my July article referred to above, I made reference to the existence of some firmly established ‘conventions’ in matters relating to ‘governance’, or the administration of people’s public affairs. The dictionary meaning of the word “convention”, is given as: ‘a way in which something is done, that most people in a society would consider to be the right way of doing it’. Thus, in my considered opinion, the methodology used by CCM Secretary General Dr Bashiru Ally, (and previously by Minister Kangi Lugola), of giving instructions to their subordinates by way of pronouncements made at public meetings, is something that most people would NOT consider to be the right way of doing things. But for the avoidance of any doubt, I should perhaps emphasize the point that any person, who is vested with statutory authority, has the requisite power to issue any appropriate instructions. Thus, Dr Bashiru Ally was absolutely right, and fully justified, in his action of summoning Mr Membe to his office. My only criticism of that action, is in relation to the methodology which he adopted in issuing his instructions. Namely that of merely pronouncing them at a distant public meeting, and far away from the intended recipient of those instructions. It should be remembered that legally, any instructions or orders issued by any person in authority can always be challenged in court, on grounds of either their being ultra vires, or for failure to follow the correct procedures. Hence, the need to follow correct procedures is an essential ingredient for the validity of the relevant orders, or instructions. The alleged motive behind Dr. Bashiru’s action THE CITIZEN Newspaper of Wednesday, 5th December, 2018; helpfully published some comments which were made by a number of academics from a variety of our country’s Universities; under the heading : ”Behind the Membe, Bashiru tiff”. That Paper quoted one Professor Gaudence Mpangala, who it said “is convinced that Dr Bashiru has the support of the top party leadership”, who had said that: “the purpose is clear, that the President wouldn’t like to see anyone with the intention of challenging his second term succeeding”. And this was supported by Dr Ezavel Lwaitama, who said that “he doesn’t buy the idea that Dr Bashiru was specifically targeting his message on Mr Membe. He was warning all others with intent to oppose President Magufuli at the forthcoming general election”. Unfounded speculations But basically, all that is mere speculation. This is because, in fact, President Magufuli has no reason whatsoever to harbor the fear of being challenged by other CCM aspirants to the Presidency since, like his predecessors, he is fully protected by CCM’s established ‘convention’, which provides that (unless he has obviously failed in the performance of his duties and responsibilities during his first term in office, and therefore deserves to be dismissed by way of deselection), he will be the only person who will be finally nominated as the CCM Presidential candidate for the relevant mid-term Presidential election. This convention effectively suspends the CCM rule which requires the Central Committee (CC) to submit five names to the National Executive Committee (NEC); and for NEC to submit three names to the Party’s national Congress, for the final selection of the one person who will be the CCM candidate for the relevant mid-term Presidential election. This observance of this convention means that other CCM candidates may, if they wish, submit their names for consideration; but they should know that they have no chance of being selected . The application of this convention Historically, there have actually been two separate stages in the application of this long established convention. The first stage was during the ‘One Party’ political system, when CCM was the sole political party which was allowed by the country’s Constitution to operate in Tanzania. During the whole of that period, internal party democracy was unfairly restricted, in the sense that party members were not even given a chance to seek election as Presidential candidates. Instead, the procedure was for the party’s National Executive Committee itself to nominate only one candidate for such elections. That restrictive practice terminated with the Constitutional change of the political system to multi-party politics in 1992. That is when the second stage commenced, and came in with the broadening of internal democracy within the party itself, whereby any CCM member who had the ambition, or aspiration of becoming President, was allowed to declare his intention of doing so; and a procedure was established through which this could be done. This is the stage at which we are currently; and all systems are functioning normally. What needs to be emphasized here, is that there is an established procedures, which must be strictly followed by any aspiring candidate, including Mr. Bernard Membe in the instant case. And this, as disclosed by Dr Bashiru Ally himself, was the reason for his summons to Mr Membe, in order to establish whether or not, the accusations being raised against him, that he was violating the laid down procedures, are truly founded. Thus, because this is a normal, routine administrative action which may be taken by any person who is in authority, he obviously does not need “the support of the top party leadership” in order to do that; as claimed by Dr Ezavel Lwaitama’s speculation in his interview with the CITIZEN, which we quoted above. Hopefully therefore, this clarification will eliminate any further speculations that President Magufuli “is afraid of being challenged by other CCM aspirants”; for it underscores the fact that the CCM tradition described above, protects him fully from any such internal challenges in relation to his second term. Back to the need to follow established procedures . The following quotation is taken from among the numerous teachings by Mwalimu Nyerere: “wakiwa na nia njema, watu walioelimika wanao uwezo wa kukosoa matendo ya Viongozi wao, akiwamo hata Rais wao. It is in the light of that teaching that this article has been written. That is why it is appropriately headed that: “people in authority should always follow established procedures”. This is because it is intended, in absolute good faith, to underscore the point that ‘the need to follow established practices and procedures, is of paramount importance in the administration of public affairs by public leaders and officials’; for it is generally accepted that all public business will be conducted by the relevant people in authority, strictly in accordance with the existing laws, regulations and the established procedures. This is what is commonly referred to as “the rule of law”. And that is in fact why, from time to time, we hear, or read about cases of some leaders, or other officials, being taken to court for the offence of having issued orders which are either ultra vires, or which were issued without following the prescribed procedures. Such occurrences serve to underscore the need for all such people who are in authority to follow proper procedures, when issuing any orders, or instructions, which they are legally empowered to do. As food for thought, I will close this presentation with a reflection on some inspiring words of wisdom from the learned, one-time President of India, Hon APJ Abdul Kalam, who is on record to have said the following: “A candle loses nothing by lighting another candle”.