GOLF has continued to take Zanzibar by storm, and in a short period it has become a vital tool in promoting tourism sector, while also serving the needy communities in many ways. The Isles only golf course at Mangapwani is spearheading what has been said the best from golf besides tee off and putting the sport’s most spoken terminologies. The Rotary Zanzibar & Fumba Town Golf Day that has recently celebrated its third year since introduced thanks to Sea Cliff Resort golf course. The 3rd edition of annual golf tournament that meant to raise fund for those in need in Zanzibar was successful one. Sjani Muggenburg organisers from Rotary Club of Zanzibar, Stone Town, told the ‘Daily News’ recently that the event was a huge success, raising 18,000 US dollar to support Makunduchi Hospital this year. “It was an amazing day of golf on a beautiful course, filled with the fun and fellowship of other players, sponsors, friends and family whilst helping over 1,000 others,” she said. Adding that in just three years the charity competition has made its mark on the golfing communities of East Africa, raising over 50,000 US dollars for the worthy causes. And all these happen because Zanzibar can now enjoy golf facilities at Sea Cliff course, designed by South African expert and officially opened by Zanzibar President Ali Mohamed Shein in February 2015. Muggenburg said the organisers and sponsors of the events were thrilled to see how much the event has grown in terms of status and reputation all over the East Africa’s golfing circuit. This year’s event attracted record numbers including several new players from Uganda and Kenya. “They had all heard about previous year’s events and had to see for themselves what their friends and fellow golfers were raving about and were not disappointed, nor were the many returning players, some of whom travelled from as far as the United Kingdom and South Africa,” added. “They were further delighted by the support and enthusiasm of the many non-players who supported by attending the evening prize giving dinner ‘The 19th Hole’.” She noted that sponsors of the event continue to be hugely generous with their donations also. “The luxury gift bags that each player received were valued at USD 300 each. Key sponsors included; Fumba Town, Sea Cliff Resort & Spa, ORYX Energies, OZTI East Africa, RE/MAX Omela Real Estate, Zanlink, Advent Construction and Resolution Insurance did a wonderful job,” Said Muggenburg. On the course, each hole was sponsored by organisations providing refreshments for the competitors just to make players forget competition challenges include hot weather and color event. That includes breakfast which was provided at the 1st hole by Sea Cliff, while refreshing drinks were supplied on the 3rd hole by ZMMI. Qatar Airways, for the 3rd year running sponsored two return flights as the winning prizes for the men’s and women’s categories, with other amazing prizes for 2nd and 3rd place just to give participants warm hospitality. The tournament also saw prizes on each hole for both men and woman for longest drive and closest to pin. Kyle Veitch, a tournament regular, took home first prize for men and Priscilla Karobia, a fellow Rotarian from Dar es Salaam, won the ladies title. Muggenburg explained that the beneficiary of the 2018 Golf Day was once again Makunduchi Hospital, managed by HIPZ and the Ministry of Health. During the dinner, ‘The 19th Hole’ HIPZ made a short but powerful presentation highlighting their achievements, challenges and journey according to organisers. The sponsors, golfers and supporters received a great visual understanding of just how big the Rotarian contribution has been. The Rotary Club of Zanzibar, Stone Town together with their international Rotary partners is as significant a partner as big names such as UNICEF and Save the Children. Muggenburg said that the proceeds of their inaugural 2016 Golf Day were partially used to obtain a Rotary Global Grant amounting to almost USD 80,000 for major refurbishment of certain areas of the hospital. This year, the proceeds of the 2018 Golf Day and other funds raised through our Rotarian Partners in Nevenes, Norway will be used to pay for repairs, construction and extensions to the hospital amounting to USD 36,000. That will include building an extension to the female ward (and thereby consolidating the services offered to women patients in a way which offers them more respect and privacy), creation of a dedicated post-miscarriage care and counseling unit and construction of a new incinerator according to Muggenburg. The hospital current it has said receives an average of 70 female in-patients a month. The existing ward has 6 beds and they hope to increase this to 10. The complete extension increases the existing ward by approximately 160 per cent. She said that the hospital currently also deals with about 30 cases of miscarriage a month and needs a dedicated surgical space for safe, private medical care and a dedicated area to offer counseling. “Traditionally, miscarriage is treated as a fact of life, when in reality it is hugely traumatic and Rotary is very pleased to support a program that cares for woman at this delicate point,” said Muggenburg. She said that his organization has now started preparation for the 4th Rotary Golf Day in September 2019 as appeals support from many possible sponsors and golfers so as to support government efforts to the society and cannot do all by them.