IF your thumb or finger-sucking child is three years old or over, it is time to break the habit. If you wait too long to stop the thumb and finger sucking, your child can have permanent changes to their jaw shape, bite, and teeth. Speech can also be affected and many thumb suckers will need speech therapy. Thumb and finger sucking is normal in the newborn period and an important way for infants to be able to sooth themselves, but once your child is three years old, it is time to break the habit. By age three to four years, many thumb and finger sucking children have a gap between their upper and lower teeth and their jaw development has changed, often causing problems with speech. Their tongue muscles also do not develop correctly making speech sounds like “s” and “th” difficult. If you wait until after your child’s permanent teeth come in to stop the sucking, they can develop “buck teeth” and an appearance that is not cosmetically pleasing. Every child is different and there is no one right way to stop the habit. The biggest mistake you can make as a parent, though, is to wait too long to help your child break the habit. Here are some of the best ways to permanently stop finger and thumb sucking. Most people need to combine several methods to find success: Always start by talking to your child about why thumb sucking is a bad habit. Talking alone doesn’t usually break the habit, but it can help your child decide that he wants to quit. Positive motivation to quit is half the battle. Some things to talk about with your child include: Germs: thumb and finger sucking spreads germs and makes people sick. Teeth: sucking pushes teeth forward and can make the child look funny. Other kids will think you too are still a baby or might tease. Tell your child that as long as he sucks his thumb it is hard to learn how to speak the right way. Sometimes kids just really need to hear about bad habits from someone other than mom or dad. Get someone else to talk to your child. Some parents lace their thumb sucking child with a bitter liquid such as quinine. So every time the child will attempt to such his favourite thumb he meets the bitter taste. He may complain by crying but the trick will help. Plastic thumb or finger covers are highly rated and most kids cannot get them off. If you keep them on for about two weeks, your child will have kicked the habit. The problem is that they inhibit hand use, making it hard for kids to play or feed themselves. If your child will suck thumb or fingers on either hand, they will need two devices, rendering them unable to do much for themselves. Cloth covers or gloves allow kids to be more active with their hands and are easily removed. But they appear to be to be less effective. Most children graduate into good citizens. Encouraging young children to play and explore helps them learn and develop socially, emotionally, physically and intellectually. We all know that children play because it is fun. Let us now look at early traits of behaviour and how to influence conduct in children as they grow. I am talking about child grooming and early childhood care. In fact, it takes a good parent to make a good child. Well-groomed children are, invariably, well behaved. It is imperative to point here that play is a crucial aspect for children’s learning and development requirements. A close look at children at play is likely to reveal that playing builds their knowledge and experience and helps develop their curiosity and confidence. Children learn by trying things, comparing results, asking questions and meeting challenges. For children aged above three years play develops their language skills faster. Play also challenges a child to think, plan, organize and even make decisions. For a child who has a disability, stimulation and play are of significant importance. Parents and caregivers need to know that girls and boys need exactly the same opportunities for play and for interaction with all family members. Family members and other caregivers can help children learn by giving them simple tasks with simple, clear instructions. If you want to determine the level of your child’s intelligence, watch him closely during play. Study his ideas. Caregivers need to be patient when a very young child insists on trying to do something unaided. Children learn by trying until they succeed. As long as the child is protected from danger, struggling to do something new and difficult is a positive step in his development. All children need a variety of simple materials to play with that are suitable for their stage of development. Water, sand, cardboard boxes, wooden building blocks, pots and lids are just as good as toys bought from a shop. Children are constantly changing and developing new abilities. Caregivers should notice these changes and follow the child’s lead to help him develop more quickly. Children learn how to behave by imitating the behaviour of those closest to them. By watching and imitating others, young children learn how to interact socially. The examples set by adults and older children are the most powerful influences in shaping a child’s behaviour and personality. Children learn by copying what others do. If adults shout and behave violently, children will pick up this type of ill conduct. If adults treat others with kindness, respect and patience, children will follow their example and develop full potential. Never misbehave in the presence of your children. When playing, children like to pretend. This should be encouraged as it develops the child’s imagination. It also helps the child understand and accept the ways other people behave. Parents and caregivers need to know the major milestones that indicate that the child is developing well. They also need to know when to seek help and how to provide a caring and loving environment for a child with a physical or mental disability. All children grow and develop in similar patterns, but each child develops at his own rate. Some children exhibit their potential earlier than others. By observing young children to see how they respond to touch, sound and sight, parents can identify signs of developmental problems or disabilities. If a child is developing slowly, parents and caregivers can help by spending extra time with the child. I’ve seen children who never laugh. If the child does not respond to stimulation and attention, parents and caregivers need to seek help. Taking early action is very important in helping children with disabilities reach their full potential. Parents and caregivers need to encourage the greatest possible development of the child’s abilities. A girl or boy with a disability needs extra love and protection, short of which she or he may become timid. Like all children, such a child needs to be registered at birth or soon afterwards, breastfed, immunized, given nutritious food and protected from all sorts of abuse and violence. Children with disabilities should be encouraged to play and interact with other children. A child who is unhappy or experiencing emotional difficulties may behave abnormally. Such an unfortunate child may suddenly become unfriendly, sad, lazy, unhelpful or naughty. He may also cry often; become violent with other children; sit alone instead of playing with friends or suddenly have no interest in usual activities or schoolwork. He may also lose appetite and sleep. I have seen children with such traits of behaviour. Often, their problems hinge on poor parenting. Parents should talk with and listen to such disadvantaged children. If the problem persists they should seek help from health workers. If a child has mental or emotional difficulties or has been abused, he should be counseled to prevent further impairment. Children need protection from harm. Leaving children home alone without adult supervision, for example, is a form of neglect. Neglected children may be very withdrawn or even aggressive, and can develop health problems or have difficulty coping in school.