JMK Queens defeated Msimamo Youth Educators 2-1, to win the Inter Bonga-Schools and Community Competition, which climaxed on Wednesday at Msongola Primary School ground in Dar es Salaam. Organised by the Organisation for Community Development (OCODE), the thrilling football tournament, which began on November 14th this year, attracted six girls’ teams from the city, who showcased their football skills to the public. Despite playing on the sandy pitch, each team played classic football worth watching thereby quenching desire of every sports fan who stormed the venue on the day. However, both teams were reduced to ten players shortly before half-time after two players were simultaneously redcarded for showing un-sportsmanship behaviour during the match. It was JMK Queens, who started the match on front gear scoring two goals in the first half of the hot clash through Telesia Sivani and Winfrida Castro. The victors went for a break with two-goal advantage. In the second half, Msimamo team came a rejuvenated side as they managed to press hard until they scored a consolation goal courtesy of Happiness Gervas but it was not enough for them to claim the prestigious trophy. Speaking to the ‘Daily New on Saturday’ after the game, JMK Queens captain Mwaidi Konogo said she was not surprised with the victory because they prepared well to be crowned this year’s champions. “When one of our players was given marching orders, we panicked a bit but emerging winners has compensated that,” Konogo said happily. Her counterpart for Msimamo side Rachel Chuhira said they tried everything to their ability to win the match only that luck was not to their side. In her remarks, OCODE Project Field Supervisor Asnat Shauri said they opted to engage girls in playing football to instill the spirit of confidence among them. “Ever since we started this tournament, we have been receiving positive feedback from parents and guardians of these girls with many of them saying it has transformed their lives plus improving their health,” Shauri said. In the same token, the organisation’s Sports Project Officer Macklina Ng’itu said they aim to increase the number of competing teams next year to accommodate more girls. OCODE has also built two nursery classroom blocks at Msongola Primary School as one way to promote education among children.