TANZANIA through the State Mining Corporation (STAMICO) is scheduled to market 59 mining projects at the investment forum in China next week. Minister for Minerals Angela Kairuki told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that through the forum, 19 government projects and 40 projects from the private sector will be promoted. She said some of the public mega projects to advertise during the forum include Kiwira Coal Mine, Buhemba Gold Mine and other mineral research projects. Minister Kairuki said the Tanzanian delegation of 80 people from 44 companies, two business associations and investors from the mineral sector has confirmed to participate in the forum in Beijing. She said institutions that provide various services to the business community and investors in the mineral sector will also participate in the forum. “The Ministry of Minerals and TIC (Tanzania Investment Centre) coordinated visit aims at creating opportunities for investors and businesspeople in the mineral sector with a focus on encouraging foreign investors to invest or cooperate with Tanzanians in the country’s new projects,” said Ms Kairuki. The opportunity has come at the right time as the government recently set more improved policies and laws to bring equal benefits of investing in the mineral sector, she charged. She added, “Middle and small businesspeople from the sector will also attend the forum to meet and interact with Chinese investors and businesspeople to market minerals found in the country, attract capital, technology and markets for the mineral products.” “We are also inviting investors to invest in research, mining and processing of the minerals in the country,” she stated. The convention is expected to position and promote Tanzania as the country with friendly investment environment and doing business in the mineral sector, enticing Chinese investors and businesspeople to establish projects that will increase Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) in the country. TIC Executive Director Geoffrey Mwambe said the proactive initiative by the ministry to follow investors instead of waiting for them to visit the country will immensely benefit the country. “There have been a lot of conventions in Tanzania but after improvement of the laws, Tanzania will surely benefit as we expect to acquire reliable markets, processing technology and knowledge as well as focus on areas that emphasise on research,” he stated. He underscored the need to have new and up to date statistics through research and from investors in the mining and mineral processing in the country.