THE defence in a fraud and money laundering trial of former President of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Jamal Malinzi and others, expressed dissatisfaction upon failure of the prosecution to bring agreed number of witnesses, a factor that hindered the case to continue with the hearing, yesterday. Advocate Richard Rweyongeza submitted before Kisutu Principal Resident Magistrate, Wilbard Mashauri that the prosecution needed to prepare more than one witness to appear for the session in case the other faces an emergency. He requested the court to ensure such occurrence does not become a regular routine. His counterpart, Abraham Senguji was on the view that the prosecution had failed to implement a court order of bringing in two to three witnesses in the sessions something which shows that they do not intend for the case to move further. “If the prosecution has no interest to further pursue the case, they should then leave the accused to be set free considering that they have stayed in prison for a longtime,” alleged Advocate Senguji. The submissions came after the Prosecutor with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Leonard Swai informed the court that the matter was brought for hearing and they had prepared a witness but unfortunately the person has family problems. He requested the court to issue another date for the hearing to continue. In the next session, the prosecution is expected to bring forth the 10th witness. The case was adjourned to January 2 for mention and the hearing will continue on January, 16, 17 and 21, 2019. Responding to the submissions from the defence, Swai alleged that the allegations posed on them were not true and they can be confirmed based on the number of witnesses that have already testified before the court. In the trial, other accused persons are ex-Secretary General Mwesigwa Selestine, Accounts officer Nsiande Mwanga, TFF Office Manager Miriam Zayumba and Flora Rauya, the Clerk with the Federation. They are facing a total of 30 counts of conspiracy (Malinzi and Selestine), abuse of office (Malinzi and Selestine), 11 counts of forgery (Malinzi, Selestine, Miriam and Flora), uttering false documents (Selestine) and 12 counts of obtaining money by false pretences (Malinzi). Others are four charges of money laundering (Malinzi, Selestine and Mwanga). Both Malinzi and Selestine are accused of forging such resolution of June 5, 2016 a view make changes of signatories whereby Edgar Masoud, who was TFF Director of Finance and Accounting was replaced by Mwanga.