THE implementation of the Residential Addresses and Post Code Policy across the country is now in top gear as the state embarks on sensitization campaigns for the general public to effectively take part. Multiple advantages of the system were explained here by the Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications responsible for the Communication sector, Dr Jim Yonaz during a workshop here on Thursday. The workshop which brought together top officials and local government leaders from Sengerema and Buchosa District Councils was meant to impart knowledge on the policy as well as prepare leaders for its implementation On his part, the Buchosa District Council Chairman, Henry Kanyumi said he will push for the Councillors to endorse the project and supervise the implementation. According to Dr Yonaz, the government has finally decided to roll out the Policy due to a number of advantages it carried to the national economic, security and social development. “We have embarked on reaching all leaders in the local governments to chart out strategic approaches as we roll out this Policy countrywide. Apart from issues of security and economy, it will also introduce Tanzania effectively to the world and facilitate various development strategies,” he said. Dr Yonaz, a renowned expert in communication technology, was of the view that the effective implementation of the Residential Addresses and Post Code will address a number of challenges the country was facing today, including making it easier to detect foreigners, crimes and revenue collection. The workshop was also attended by the ministry’s two Deputy Ministers, Mwita Waitara of the President Office- Local Governments and Regional Administration and Atashasta Nditiye of the Ministry of Works, Communications and Transport, who all emphasized the effective participation in the Policy. Mr Waitara said the effective use of the system might facilitate well in curbing tax evasion by possibly helping in increasing the tax base from the current 3 million individual tax payers to about 10 million. “My ministry will remain instrumental in this crucial project and I would hereby direct all District Executive Directors to include this matter in their routine planning and allocate enough time and resources for implementation without any further delays,” he said. On his part, Deputy Minister Nditiye said the system was crucial now when the country was progressing well economically, which means all Tanzanians must be recognized and their homes and businesses identified. He said post and other courier services were still poor especially among rural dwellers, saying the contributing factors will be addressed by the system. The Chairman of the Buchosa District Council, Henry Kanyumi commended the government for coming up with the agenda and challenged fellow councillors to endorse it and get ready for implementation. According to Kanyumi, the Post Code will definitely push the development agenda and realize other ambitious social development programmes.