JKT Queens launched their Mainland Women Football League title defence campaign on a sound note, beating Evergreen 9-0 at the Karume Memorial Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Fatuma Mustapha netted five goals, while Stumai Abdallah and Asha Rashid ‘Mwalala’ grabbed a brace each as the defending champions kicked off from where they had left last season. The league continues today in which five matches will be on the card. At the Lake Tanganyika in Kigoma, Sisters FC will play host to Yanga Princess, while Arusha’s Tanzanite will welcome Simba Queens at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Kaluta Stadium. In Mwanza Alliance Girls will face Panama FC at the Nyamagana Stadium, Mapinduzi Queens will confront Mlandizi Queens at the Sabasaba ground in Njombe and Baobab Queens will entertain Marsh Queens at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. The league will enter second round on Thursday, where Evergreen Queens will battle it out against Simba Queens at the Karume Memorial Stadium in Dar es Salaam; Kigoma’s Sisters FC will welcome Baobab at the Lake Tanganyika Stadium. Marsh Queens will face Yanga Princess at the Nyamagana Stadium, JKT Queens and Tanzanite will face off at the Major General Issamuhyo ground in Dar es Salaam, Mlandizi Queens will welcome Alliance Girls at the Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Coast Region and Panama FC will lock horns with Mapinduzi Queens at the Samora Stadium in Iringa. The women league now enters its third year since it was inaugurated in 2016 with hefty backing from Azam. Mlandizi Queens won the inaugural edition, while JKT Queens won the second edition of the league. This year, 12 teams are competing for the title and the Chairperson of Tanzania Women Football Association (TWFA), Amina Karuma said the involvement of more teams will spice up the competition challenge. Adding she said the presence of Serengeti Lager as the sponsor will add a dimension to thrill of the whole league. “We delighted to inform the public that we have Serengeti Lite as the sponsor hence we expected it to be highly competitive,” she said. Serengeti has injected 450m/- as its sponsorship package, according to the firm’s official George.