DAR ES SALAAM Gymkhana Club (DGC) Chairman Walter Chipeta said his club is proud of its multi-sports grassroots programmes and promised to continue developing them further. Addressing during this year’s DGC Chairman’s Awards Ceremony gala over the weekend, Chipeta said his club has seen the bright future in youth development and will continue investing in the programmes. He said that he was excited to see young and upcoming players dominating the awards gala. In one of the efforts, he said his club have organised Juniors Sport Camp set to start from December 10 to 22 this year. He added that the two-week camp to be open for juniors from the age of 6 to 11 years old, will involve all sports being played at the club. Chipeta names sports disciplines available at the club as soccer, tennis, cricket, golf, squash and swimming. “I want to encourage parents and guardians to bring children at the camp, it is worthy to introduce them and give them chances to showcase their talents,” he said. During the ceremony Chipeta awarded golfer Safraz Daya as a Division A trophy’s winner while the runner up title went to Peter Fiwa. Division B winners were Ally Jaffer and Gaurav Jiwan. In Cricket, Best Batsman Award went to Abhik Patwa, Best All-Rounder, Vishal Patel, Best upcoming players Kartik Syal and Ansh Doshi and the Most Dedicated Junior player’s awards went to Laksh Bakrania and twins Sanay and Sayan Jobanputra. Sanjay Patadia was decorated as the best snooker player, Manish Khattar was second and Ally Gulamali third. Tennis Best Player of the year award went to Sanjay Choksi, Most Improved Player was Collins Odhiambo and Most Dedicated Junior Awards title went to Niokind Carlos and Axel Carlos. In Football Section, winner was Captain Aliabidi Mamdani, Best Supporter, Joseph Mpuya and the Most Valuable Player was Alfin Mafuwe. Squash Best Player of the Year was Henry Herman, Upcoming Young Player scooped by Rahul Mawji and the Most Improved Player of the Year went to Durell Mkuu.