YOUNG Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera said 100 per cent determination from his players is the main key to the team’s positive results this season. Unstoppable Yanga posted a 2-1 victory against Mbeya City on Saturday at a fully-packed Sokoine Stadium to go 10-points clear at the top of the Mainland Premier League table with one game to go before the end of the first round of the season. A first half brace by Heritier Makambo was enough to fly-high his side into the hot competition and all eyes are now directed on Yanga’s closing game of the first round with league giants Azam FC whose unbeaten run of the season ended on Saturday following a 2-0 slump from Mtibwa Sugar. It was the 16th win for Yanga from their 18 matches and are now the only unbeaten team in the league with their worst results of the season being the two draws they registered against their traditional rivals Simba SC (0-0) and a 1-1 stalemate over Ndanda FC respectively. Speaking after the encounter, Zahera said there is nothing strange in their back to back wins other than commitment and determination displayed by his charges. “All the teams we play against in the league do not give us a simple game as they too fight to claim maximum three points at the end of the normal play but at the same time, we do respond with the same mentality like them,” Zahera who returned at the team’s technical area after a two-match absence said. He added: “I always tell my players that apart from playing tactical football, they should also have determination and the spirit of sacrificing themselves to get tangible results. If your opponents have 100 per cent determination, you should also have 100 per cent commitment.” In his remarks, Mbeya City coach Ramadhani Nsanzurwimo said tactically his team played better football than Yanga only that luck was not on their side. “As you saw, we completely dominated the second half, giving them no chance to increase the tally only that we were not sharp enough at the target. I am totally impressed with the way the players handled the game even though we have failed to take the necessary three points from home territory,” said him. Commenting on the second goal his side conceded, Nsanzurwimo said it came after lack of coordination between the goalkeeper Fikirini Bakali and his defenders. “Football is a game of mistakes such that when you commit one, your opponents use that as an advantage that is exactly what happened,” said the Burundian. Also, the newly signed Yanga veteran midfielder Haruna Boban who played the entire match lauded support they get from the club’s fans across the country saying it drives them to work hard on the pitch. “Wherever we go, they (supporters) are there as well. As players, we have nothing worth to give them back other than maximum three points we usually collect from the battle field,” Boban said. It was the first league match for Boban in the colours of the Jangwani street based club whose presence prior to the game was a doubt after he was substituted in the 29th minute after picking an injury when Yanga stunned Tukuyu Stars 4-0 in Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) last week.