PARTICIPATION in sports activities in school is a key part of a childhood experience and has an immense and lasting impact in life. Apart from helping to keep the child healthy and physically fit, it promotes socialisation and development of leadership skills and teaches important lessons of discipline and teamwork. Unfortunately, most of our children with different types of disabilities don’t have the opportunity to actively participate in sports like their peers without disabilities. When you look at how we organise sports in most of our schools you find out that students with disabilities are often denied the chance because of assumptions, prejudices, or stereotypes. We have to change this attitude so that we help students with disabilities get an equal opportunity to participate alongside other students. For a couple of years now, people with disabilities and those in the civil rights groups worldwide have struggled to demand equal rights for children with disabilities. We have to revisit the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which we have signed and ratified and take steps to abide by our pledge of providing access to the disabled schoolchildren to enjoy sports activities. We have what is known as an inclusive education programme, but I don’t see changes which have fully accommodated students with physical or intellectual disabilities in sports. For four decades now, I have worked closely with a large variety of people with disabilities, including children, as an ex-officio and later member of the Board of Trustees of the Zanzibar Association of People with Disabilities (UWZ). I have come across people with superb talents and skill, sometimes far better off than the so called able bodied people. For example there was one man living in the Zanzibar Old Stone Town called Kali (he died 15 years back) who was born blind, but was a jack of all trades. He was a Quran teacher, a telephone operator, an electrician who repaired radios and televisions, pressing iron, kettles and other electrical appliances. Moreover, he was a composer of Taarab songs and its music and played different instruments and at times he went on the stage to sing. The world has witnessed people with disabilities making wonders in different sports. One of them was a Brazilian soccer legend, respected for his dribbling skill, brilliance in reading the game and scoring beautiful goals, Manuel Francisco dos Santos (28 October 1933 – 20 January 1983), known by the nickname Garrincha (seventh in the FIFA Player of the Century). He was born with a crooked spine, warped knees and a left leg a couple of inches shorter than his right, but despite these physical obstacles, Garrincha built a reputation as one of the most skilled players in the history of the World Cup. In the United States, there was a woman who was a role model to people and especially women with disabilities worldwide. Wilma Glodean Rudolph (June 23, 1940 – November 12, 1994) was a sprinter, popularly known as Black Gazzelle, who became a world-record-holding Olympic champion and international sports icon in track and field following her successes in the 1956 and 1960 Olympic Games. She was acclaimed the fastest woman in the world in the 1960s and became the first American woman, to win three gold medals in a single Olympic Games. Rudolph and her achievements are memorialised in tributes, including a U.S. postage stamp, documentary films, television movies and publications, as well as books for young readers. I just couldn’t believe her life story when we met in Georgia, Atlanta, during my visit to the United States in 1987. She told me she was born prematurely at 4.5 pounds and was the 20th of 22 siblings from her father’s two marriages. She suffered early childhood illnesses, including pneumonia and scarlet fever, and contracted infantile paralysis (caused by the polio virus) at the age of five. She recovered from polio, but lost strength in her left leg and foot. Physically disabled for much of her early life, Rudolph wore a leg brace until she was 12 years old. For two years her mother took her for weekly bus trips to a hospital which was 100 kilometres away for treatments to regain the use of her weakened leg. She received home massage treatments four times a day from members of her family and wore an orthopaedic shoe for support of her foot for two years. She overcame the debilitating effects of polio and learned to walk without a leg brace or orthopaedic shoe for support when she was 12. After years of treatments to regain the use of her left leg, Rudolph began playing basketball and later competed in track. At the age of 16, after doing well in college games she qualified to compete in a 200-metre race at the 1956 Olympics in Melbourne, Australia. She was defeated in a preliminary heat of the 200- metre race at the Melbourne Olympics, but at the 1960 Olympics in Rome, Italy, Rudolph competed in three events - the 100- and 200- metre sprints, as well as the 4 × 100-metre relay and won a gold medal in each of these events. She ran the finals of the 100 metres in 11.0 seconds and took another gold medal in 200 metres in 24.0 seconds, after setting a new Olympic record of 23.2 seconds in the opening heat. After these events she was hailed as “the fastest woman in history”. Tanzanians ought to draw lessons from what I have explained and plan to make sports available through schools to each and every student who desires to participate. We have to make sure that the policy of inclusive education should also include sports. Fortunately, our youths are more receptive to “inclusion” than their parents. Sometimes back I believed that people with disabilities have limited energy and will power to succeed in life. But my experience of living and working with them and see them making ‘wonders’ has convinced me that our young men and women who have disabilities can make wonders like their peers elsewhere. All that they need is the opportunity and facilities that can help them show their talents and skill in sports and other areas in our day to day life. By the way we have to understand that some of the so called disabled athletes are quicker than their able-bodied counterparts. For example, Marcel Hug of Switzerland is faster over 800m than able-bodied world record holder David Rudisha of Kenya. At the 2012 Olympics in London, Oscar Pistorius of South Africa became the first double-leg amputee to compete at both the Olympics and Paralympics. Finishing second in his heat, he beat several able-bodied competitors. Consequently, with technology advancing people continue to wonder how long it will be until disabled competitors will come to dominate a sport. Let us in Tanzania provide those opportunities to our young ones who have disabilities to prove their worth as their colleagues in other countries.