THE Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Mr Selemani Jafo, has ordered authorities to investigate the embezzlement of 2.9bn/- by Ulanga District Council officials, including instituting legal and disciplinary measures against all workers involved. Speaking to reporters here yesterday, Mr Jafo said the fraud was discovered following a special audit conducted by his office in 12 municipalities and district councils countrywide. He directed the Morogoro Regional Commissioner, Dr Stephen Kebwe to reverse the transfer of the Ulanga council officials who were involved in the scandal, so that disciplinary and legal measures are instituted at the council where the crime was committed. Moreover, he called for demotion of all heads of departments and units involved in the mess who are: Mr Yasin Galahenga, Willy Ndabila and Eng David Kaijage who were in charge of accounts, procurement and administration respectively. Also, top disciplinary organs will give directives over the Ulanga District Council Executive Director, Mr Yusuph Semguruka. Mr Jafo said the accountants Issack Mwasankope, Johnson Mwanyombole, Stanley Nyange and Charles Emman have been told to hand over the office to give room for smooth investigations on the part of the council and state organs. “The RC must also make sure my office gets clear details on why the responsible regional personnel failed to work on the internal auditor’s reports, which highlighted the Ulanga council embezzlement,” he insisted. Explaining further, Mr Jafo said the misappropriation of funds was revealed in a special audit conducted from November 13th to 23rd this year following complaints from the Ulanga Member of Parliament and the resident alleging gross misconduct. The finding, he said, showed that there was misappropriation of development funds, women and youth funds as well as revenue collection whereas Ulanga DED, Mr Semguruka failed to honour his duties. “The DED has been taken into task since as an accounting officer of the council funds, has failed to set up a tight revenue collection and spending system that would have not given room for the 2.9bn/- loss,” Mr Jafo lamented. As for the Ulanga Treasurer, Mr Rajab Siriwa, the Minister alleged that he took part in the swindling of the council revenue through various ways such as not banking revenue collected. “He endorsed 225.5m/- which was not in the budget, without consulting the ministry, 192m/- for DED travel allowances, on top of that he failed to deposit revenue collection amounting to 760m/- which could not be traced anywhere,” said Mr Jafo. As for Eng Kaijage, when acting as DED on 1st to 8th February this year received 470m/- payment from Kilombero Valley Teak Company and paid back the same amount to the company on the same day. The Council’s Procurement Officer, Mr Willy Ndabila endorsed ghost payments of medicines worth 73m/-, while paying additional 146.4m/- for drugs which were nowhere to be found.