STAKEHOLDERS and experts in the sector of health have challenged the government to start sponsoring students, who study nursing and midwifery at health training colleges to get well-trained personnel. This comes after the revelation that a big number of students studying nursing and midwifery in three Lake Zone nursing training colleges have failed to make it to the end of their programmes, while some, who made it to the end, have failed to secure their certificates to date. Speaking to ‘Daily News’ recently, Lake Zone Health Training Coordinator, Dr Hyasintha Jaka, said there were reports of frequent dropouts of students at various nursing training colleges in the Lake Zone, the main reason being failure to pay tuition fees. “This is a serious problem, which calls for the government to consider sponsoring these students, especially those, who come from poor families or support them by paying half or all of their tuition fees as it has been the case to students studying medicine,” she said. According to Dr Jaka, there is high demand of qualified diploma nurses in rural based health facilities and so the government should ensure that all nurse students are enabled to complete their studies and where possible secure employment. The problem was reported during an event organised by Jhpiego, a nongovernmental organisation working to improve maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health through a More and Better Midwives for Rural Tanzania (MBM-RT) programme by supporting health training institutes in the Lake and Western zones. The three nursing training colleges namely Bukumbi, Sengerema and Sumve are renowned for providing quality training, although the principals of those colleges have reported some challenges, including students’ inability to pay stipulated fees topping the list. The principals of the three colleges Lydia Chuwa, Yohana Ng’wandu and Bernard John despite reporting some achievements under the MBM programme, cited several challenges with Mr Ng’wandu, saying he was holding at least 50 certificatesfor the students, who had failed to pay school fees. “We are holding those certificates for the last five years. In 2016, 10 students out of 80 dropped out of the college and this year 20 students did not make it to the end of their programmes. This is an issue that needs to be addressed,” said Mr Ng’wandu. He noted that the situation forced the college to summon parents to discuss the matter, but some of them simply refused to pay for the fees, while others disappeared from their homes after they received their pensions and terminal benefits from their employers. For her part, Ms Chuwa said she was holding some certificates for 2015, 2016 and 2017 academic years, while this year three students dropped out of the college because the parents had no money to pay for their education. This paper found out further that the three colleges were all charging an average fee of between 2.5m/- and 3m/-, including meals, fees, accommodation, examinations and other miscellaneous charges. “We agree that some of the parents are financially unstable, while others’ financial situation changed, but many others are just negligent and this is not fair since we spend a lot of money in running these colleges and are struggling to provide quality education to students,” stressed Ms Chuwa.