IF all goes well, Tanzania is set to receive the first Airbus 220- 300 series by Sunday this week to be operated by the country’s flag bearer Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) which is undergoing major reforms to regain its glory. In a quick rejoinder, the government assured passengers that suspension of services by Fastjet will not affect air transport in the country since ATCL will chip in to fill the gap by increasing frequencies of its flights in all major airports. The Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Engineer Isack Kamwelwe, made the revelation when responding to questions by journalists at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Dar es Salaam yesterday. “We have already dispatched a team of pilots and cabin crew to Canada to be trained on operating the new aircrafts. “The manufacturer of the aircrafts had promised to start delivering the two planes in phases starting December 23 (Sunday),” the Minister explained. Eng Kamwelwe pointed out further that the new plane will start flying between Dar es Salaam, Mbeya International Airport as well as Mwanza and Kilimanjaro Airports by January, next year. Suspension of Fastjet operations has led to an increase of passengers in the domestic market but the minister was highly optimistic that ATCL will be in the position to offer services through increased frequencies of its flights. The low-cost airline, Fastjet, faced the axe by the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) after it was proved that the private company lacked required credentials to operate coupled with massive debts owed to the government and private suppliers and service providers. Acquisition of the new Airbus planes by the government thus will play an important role in boosting the aviation industry locally, regionally and at global level, the minister stressed. The renowned airplane manufacturer, Airbus, which acquired the Canadian company, Bombardier Inc, said in a statement recently that ATCL was set to become the first African country to operate the newest Airbus A220-300 series. The aircraft with a seating capacity of 16 0 passengers is 38 .7 metres long and 11 .5 meters wide while its wings measure 35.1 metres long. Available information show that the new planes have the flying capacity of 5,9 20 kilometers without refuelling, since its fuel tanks have the capacity to store up to 21 ,9 1 8 litres. The A220-300 series is a family of technologically advanced, super-efficient airplanes with new passengerpleasing features, providing unmatched fuel efficiency and environmental performance, wide and comfortable seats, less fuel consumption and fewer emissions. Three years after President John Magufuli affirmed his stance on revamping the national airline, revenues by the company have doubled while the number of passengers has improved tremendously, flying 4 32,000 passengers per year from merely 48 ,000 in the same duration in 201 5. ATCL now enjoys 32 per cent market share of the aviation industry in Tanzania, which was hitherto in the hands of private airlines. The company had only 2.5 per cent of the market in 201 5. The Airbus A220-300 series, formerly known as Bombardier CS300 flew for the first time in February 2015 and was commissioned in 2016 where Baltic Airlines was the first airline in the world to fly the aircrafts. In October 2017 , Airbus bought 50.01 per cent shares in the Canadian giant aircraft manufacturer, which, therefore, made it the majority shareholder. Tanzania had pressed its order with enough lead time prior to the current changes at the manufacturer. Earlier, the order had comprised two CS300 jetliners aircrafts each at US 200 million dollars per aircraft. With the new acquisition of the planes, ATCL is gearing to expand its network in the region to as far as Bombay in India, Guangzhou in China and Bangkok in Thailand. ATCL also operates the Bombardier Q 400 turboprop aircrafts purchased from Canada’s Bombardier Inc., each with a seating capacity of 76 , flying to 1 2 destinations while the Boeing will operate in both local and international routes. Tanzania holds vast tourism potential but one of the barriers to its development was the absence of a direct national flight to Dar es Salaam.