THE government has said companies should adhere to accounting standards and there is no room for entertaining malpractices. The Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning Dr Ashatu Kijaji (pictured) said adhering to accounting standards and ethics stands to propel the country into a middle income economy. “Accountants are important stakeholders in industrialisation agenda, insightful financial statements attract foreign investment and create public trust. I call upon all of you (registered accountants) to give Tanzania the respect it deserves through your noble profession,” Dr Kijaji said. The deputy minister was speaking during the award handing ceremony to best public and private entities over the weekend, where Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) emerged an overall winner. Dr Kijaji who officiated the event, urged the accountants to ethically perform their duties as time for entertaining laziness and embezzlements is over. She said “the current government has no room for entertaining malpractices as it eyes for the middle economy come 2025”. TRA emerged as an overall winner in the best producer of financial statement of the year 2017. The contest was conducted by the National Board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAA). The taxman, also, emerging the winner under the government agencies and institutions category translates that it was the best government financial statement producers. TRA Commissioner General Charles Kichere said the winning means that they are not only collecting taxes, but also acts as a role model in preparing financial statements. “Best prepared financial books simplify tax procedures and lead to correct tax payments while unwell prepared statements, may lead to increased or decreased tax dues to the concerned parties,” Mr Kichere said during the award handing ceremony. TRA, thus, advised taxpayers to adhere to international standards in preparing financial statements so as to motivate voluntary tax compliance and to avoid unnecessary disturbances including penalties.