TANZANIA expects to have its own Auditors Training Centre constructed in Dar es Salaam Region’s Kigamboni District, thanks to support from the Nanjing Audit University (NAU) of China. On completion, the centre will be used to train professional auditors, saving the budget that could otherwise be used to train them abroad. Controller and Auditor General (CAG) Professor Mussa Assad said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the National Audit Office of Tanzania (NAOT) has already secured a plot at Gezaulole area in Kigamboni and his office is currently in talks with the Ministry of Finance and Planning to have the college included in the government’s priorities. Prof Assad made the remarks as he welcomed to his office a six-person delegation from NAU led by the university’s President Prof Liu Wanghong. The CAG said cooperation between the two parties is enforced with the tripartite Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed in 2015 with the aim of promoting cooperation on education empowerment and knowledge sharing among NAOT, NAU and University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) in audit and related subjects. “We are looking forward to more support in curriculum development and design of other trainings as well as capacity building for NAOT to groom its trainers for the eagerly awaited Kigamboni based centre,” he said, describing the envisaged college as the first to be constructed in Africa. Given the experience and achievements that NAU has had over time, Prof Assad was optimistic that his office will learn more on the concepts towards establishment and operation of the NAOT’s training centre. In the contract, NAU agreed to share experiences through seminars, exchange programmes for staff and students from the NAOT and UDSM in accounting and audit of oil and gas companies, mega projects, governance of public revenues and other relevant fields. According to Prof Assad, NAOT has benefited a lot from the bilateral cooperation in many ways, including knowledge of real time audit which was acquired through various visits to NAU. “Currently, NAOT has benefited from the NAU’s Masters’ degree programme, which offers two scholarships to our staffs every year,” he said, adding that the programme has enabled NAOT to have more competent professionals. Prof Wangong pledged continued cooperation, saying the Chinese university has also been learning from NAOT. “Our visit aims at experience exchange and learning how NAOT performs, especially on auditing government accounts and undertaking scientific researches,” he explained. The academicians that landed into the country on Thursday evening are today scheduled to visit Ngorongoro crater and cultural centres in Arusha before flying back to Nanjing, China tomorrow.