PLANS are underway to establish a centre for testing car emission due to rising air pollution by automobile. The Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office (Environment and Union Affairs) Mr January Makamba said the centre will test car emission prior to importation into the country to tackle the growing problem. “The increase of vehicles in Dar es Salaam is growing at the rate of 6.3 per cent annually which contributes to the problem of pollution, which in turn affects our environment,” Mr Makamba said while launching a new generation of Scania truck in the country. The minister said “will work closely with the Ministry of Transport and Traffic officers to ensure the successful implementation of the drive.” Mr Makamba said currently automobile air pollution is a growing problem in Tanzania, especially in the cities and testing car emission level is one way of tackling the growing problem. The world, including Tanzania is approaching a tipping point, where the convergence of new technology and business models will result in a state where sustainable transport solutions will take off and become the “new normal” and the current unsustainable solutions will be phased out. “The future of transport will be decarbonized, clean, electrified, automated and digitalized,” Mr Makamba said over the weekend. Scania, according to the environment minister, goal is to be a leader in driving the shift towards sustainable transport systems. “Indeed, the launch of the new generation truck is Scania’s way of demonstrating the implementation of multilateral environmental agreements to action,” he said. During the launch, Managing Director of Scania Mr Lars Eklund said the country and the world as whole need transport that reduces and eventually balances out the impacts on the environment. “In other terms we will offer an improved bottom line and a healthier place to live in at the same time,” Mr Eklund said. He added: “Sustainability is also about road safety, we need to reduce accidents for human benefits, for society, and for business benefits, these things always go hand in hand—profitability and sustainability.” The new truck offers driver support to actively and passively drive safer as well as more efficient. The Swedish truck manufacturer said their objective is to drive that shift towards a sustainable transport system. “Our current way of operating must change. Change starts today, here and now with the Next Generation Scania trucks,” he said. The new truck offers a higher efficiency in its hardware and in its software through added solutions. Basically, it reduces fuel consumption, oil and filter consumption to name a few. It also reduces carbon monoxide and thereby the environmental impact and all of that will reduce operating cost.