THE 12th meeting of the sectoral council on agriculture and food security that ended here at the weekend has tasked the six East African Community (EAC) partner states to utilise EAC aflatoxin policy briefs to engage the legislature on aflatoxin prevention and control. The council also directed the countries to enhance monitoring and allocate resources for procurement and distribution of simple Aflatoxin contamination test tools to farmers at affordable prices. “There’s an urgent need of strengthening coordination among key sectors, in particular agriculture, health, trade and environment in aflatoxin mitigation efforts,” said Zanzibar Minister for Agriculture, Natural Resources, Livestock and Fisheries, Mr Rashid Ali Juma, who chaired the council’s meeting which took place at the EAC headquarters. The Council further urged the six partner states to promote aflatoxin prevention and control measures, including biocontrol and nixtamalisation technologies; and also strengthen enforcement of existing food and feed standards for prevention and control of E disease. Currently, the six countries have agreed on a policy framework to more effectively deal with the threat of aflatoxin against human and animal health, and have organised a number of workshops and meetings where leaders wilconcoct battle plans against the carcinogenic threat. The Partnership for Aflatoxin Control in Africa (PACA) estimates that loss of life is steep due to the carcinogenic aflatoxin, which may be responsible for the high rates of liver cancer in many African countries. Aflatoxin, a natural toxin produced when Aspergillus mold grows on crops, impacts primarily maize and peanuts, some of the bigger staple crops in East Africa. Before the risks of aflatoxin were fully understood, in the 1960s, Africa had 77 per cent of the global peanut export market. Today, that number is just 4 per cent due to standards in the developed world that some African countries don’t have the means to meet. Meanwhile, Mr Juma commended the six EAC partner states for giving agriculture and food security special focus in the region. He commended the partner states for monitoring and keeping under constant review the implementation of the previous decisions and directives of the Council and Sectoral Council in regard to Agriculture and Food Security in the region. “Your efforts in keeping tabs with agriculture and food security situation in the region cannot go unnoticed by the EAC Secretariat,” said Mr Juma, who chaired the meeting on behalf of the Ugandan Minister for Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries, Mr Bamulangaki Ssempijja. The minister explained that the overall objectives of co-operation in the agricultural sector were the achievement of food security and rational agricultural production within the community. On his part, the Deputy Secretary General in charge of Productive and Social Sectors, Christophe Bazivamo, noted that agriculture was an important sector in the community and that many issues on the agenda of the meeting such as food security, pests and diseases, farm inputs, agricultural productivity, irrigation, and sustainable land management, were all provided for in the Treaty for the Establishment of the EAC. “The EAC needs to work hard to eliminate hunger by 2025 and create jobs for the youth and women,” said Mr Bazivamo. The deputy secretary general further underscored the importance of promoting fertilisers and irrigation in order to increase agricultural production, further urging the six partner states to pay special attention to areas of weak performance in the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme (CAADP) and the Malabo Biennial Review report, including the need to increase financial allocation to the agricultural sector and strengthen data collection and collation mechanisms.