...the system is intended to smoothen their trading activities A NEW era has dawned for petty traders (including the ones popularly known as ‘machinga’) across the country who will be spared of harassment, thanks to the introduction of special Identity Cards (IDs) for them. President John Magufuli handled out a total of 670,000 IDs to entrepreneurs whose business capital does not exceed 4m/-. The event in Dar es Salaam was held during a meeting attended by Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) officials. It also featured various stakeholders from government agencies. The Head of State presented 25,000 IDs to each regional commissioner for onward distribution. President Magufuli explained that equipped with the IDs, the holders would be formally recognised by TRA officials at their operational centres. “Each entrepreneur will be required to display his/her ID, to enable them conduct business without any problem and will be recognised by TRA officials wherever they are,” he said. Each ID costs 20,000/-, which whoever acquires it will be required to pay the money to the RC. “The money will be spent on processing more cards for other entrepreneurs,” he said. The Head of State added that the IDs would smoothen the registration exercise for entrepreneurs. “Entrepreneurs who will collect IDs will be required to pay 20,000/- each to the RC who will take the money to TRA so that the authority processes other IDs,” he said, adding: “I am stressing that anyone whose business capital is below 4m/- should not pay tax, instead he or she must get this special ID. We want them to expand their businesses and become big taxpayers.” President Magufuli pointed out that hawkers, food vendors and other small scale trade operators should be able to run businesses anywhere but ensure that they don’t cause disturbances. The President also urged traders commonly known as ‘machinga’ to be honest, saying that some have been collaborating with big traders to evade paying taxes. “Tax evasion occurs when some ‘machinga’ take products from big traders and sell them on streets, pretending that the goods belong to them. At the end of the day, the government loses revenue,” he said. It was further noted that, apart from creating a free trading environment for the ‘machinga’, the IDs idea was born after the Head of State noted that there had been delays in registering the ‘machinga’ and other entrepreneurs across the country.