TANZANIA Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) yesterday launched the tourism station—Tanzania Safari Channel—to promote the country’s tourism attractions. The channel is the brainchild of President John Magufuli who proposed it in May last year during his tour of the state-run broadcaster’s headquarters in Dar es Salaam. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa inaugurated the channel in the city, saying it will be used to support the government’s drive to increase the number of tourists from the current 1.3 million to two million by 2020. The premier said the channel has to air quality programmes, highlighting the available tourism fascinations to potential visitors if the government has to achieve the target of two million tourists. “It (the channel) has come at the right time as the government strives to market tourism allures available in the country…I call upon all the responsible ministries to work out strategies to make the channel sustainable,” he said. The premier instructions were directed to the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism as well as the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications. The three ministries, he said, have to set aside budgets to fund the channel for it has potential of bringing positive impact on the country’s economy. The new 24-hour channel that will be broadcasting wildlife, historical sites and ruins, cultural tourism, marine parks and beaches, is available through channel 331 and plans are afoot to have it in other decoders, including DSTV. “The available statistics have it that the tourism sector contributes 17.6 per cent—5.04tri/-, to the national income but this is too low compared to number of attractions we have,” he explained. “South Africa and Egypt receive over 10 million tourists every year, we need to think outside the box—where are we failing,” said the premier, challenging the channel to compete with other stations like the National Geographic, Discovery and Travel. TBC Director General, Dr Ayoub Rioba said preparations for the channel were done under the auspices of Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA), Tanzania National Parks Authority (TANAPA) and Tanzania Tourism Board (TTB). He said the new station studio cost 734m/-, thanks to NCAA and TANAPA support, adding that TBC management will continually work with all stakeholders to ensure the channel is sustainable. “But, the studios are here on temporary basis because we envisage relocating our operations to Dodoma,” said Dr Ryoba. Regarding the language of communication, Dr Rioba said “We have started with Kiswahili and English but in the near future, we plan to have all other major languages like Arab, Chinese, French, Germany…in the channel.” Natural Resources and Tourism Minister, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla said the ministry wasn’t satisfied with the number of tourists. “We are waiting for approval from the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications to display our billboards along Nyerere road—from the airport to the city centre,” said the minister in response to concern raised by Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, Paul Makonda. Premier Majaliwa amplified Dr Kigwangalla’s statement, ordering immediate implementations of the plan that besides promoting tourism destinations, it will also beautify the Dar es Salaam city. Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly, Dr Tulia Ackson expressed optimisms that the just launched channel will also promote tourism in the southern circuit that hasn’t been performing well as the northern circuit.