MAINLAND Premier League leaders Young Africans eye to maintain their 100 per cent record of the season, as they host Ruvu Shooting at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. Unbeaten Yanga sit top of the league table with 41 points, one point ahead their closest pursuers Azam FC, who sit second with 40 points as they missed the chance to overtake Yanga after drawing 2-2 with KMC last Monday at Uhuru Stadium. A win by the Jangwani Street based side would see them reaching 44 points from 16 matches to continue their unbeaten run of the season and most importantly, to enhance their title chase race. However, prior to the match, both teams have made squad strengthening signings during the mini-transfer window which has seen Yanga landing the former Simba SC and African Lyon midfielder, Haruna Moshi. His signing was single-handedly recommended by the team’s Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera, who said he watched him (Moshi) playing through a video clip from where he made two efficient passes which totally convinced him. “He has that strong mentality needed by midfielders and I am sure that he will deliver here,” Zahera said as Yanga fans are eager to see whether Moshi would play today. On the other hand, Ruvu Shooting penned down a six-month deal with the former Yanga winger Emmanuel Martin, whose contract with his ex-team expired. From a close view, Martin would likely shine at Ruvu Shooting due to his pace and composure when going upfront, the same qualities he exhibited and excelled during his tenure at Yanga. Meanwhile, coach Zahera on Thursday night openly said there is no room for the club’s first choice goalkeeper, Beno Kakolanya to rejoin them but rather, he should find another team. Kakolanya has missed a couple of league matches for Yanga as he insisted the team to pay him what he said four-month unpaid salary and 15m/- signing fee. The development has seen his position being occupied by third-choice goalie Ramadhani Kabwili. However, speaking to journalists here, Zahera said what Kakolanya did is intolerable since there are ten players at the club, who have not yet being paid but they still perform their responsibilities. “It is true that Kakolanya owes the club but the money in question is not his salary. It is rather the registration fee which a player is supposed to be paid when joining the new club,” Zahera said. He added: “I was surprised lately to see a clip of video showing Kakolanya receiving 2m/- from a certain person and if that man has a lot money, then he should also give other players, who have not been paid otherwise, they would also boycott training sessions in demand to be paid like what him (Kakolanya) did.” He named other players who have not been paid their registration fees as Vicent Andrew, Juma Abdul, Mrisho Ngassa, Feisal Salum, Deus Kaseke, Haritier Makambo and Claus Kindoki. Zahera continued: “Nobody chased Kakolanya at Yanga; he apparently chased himself through boycotting training sessions and refusing to travel with the team in its outside Dar es Salaam league fixtures.” “As you already know, the min-transfer window closes on Saturday (yesterday) hence Kakolanya should find himself another team before it is too late for him,” Zahera insisted. Kakolanya joined Yanga from Tanzania Prisons but his playing time last season was limited as he was used as a back-up goalkeeper to Youthe Rostand, before the later parted ways with the club last season.