THE government has launched the process for drafting the regulation that will require children to take care of their aging parents, it has been revealed. Speaking during the Age-friendly Health Service stakeholder's follow up meeting here, an official from the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Edwin Mng’ong’o said the government is drafting the regulation to ensure all aging parents receive required services from their children. The Help Age International organised meeting brought together Regional Medical Officers (RMOs), District Medical Officers (DMOs), Community Social Workers, representatives and leaders of Older People's (OP) organisations, officials from the Ministry of Health and Local Government and Regional Administration. Dr Mng’ong'o said the regulation will set legal grounds that will require children to take up caring responsibilities to their parents. He said so far some OPs have been provided with identification cards, which allow them to receive health care services freely in public hospitals. He also revealed that over 500,000 OPs have been enrolled in health insurance schemes under the Community Health Fund (CHF). It was established that OPs face various challenges, which affect them psychologically especially when they are not close to members of their families. "OPs need caring from members of their families, contrary to that they suffer from psychological problems," he said. Dr Mng’ong’o said statistics show that one Tanzanian parent takes care of nine children, and thus the same children must take care of him when he/she becomes older. "The ratio is at 1:9, thus one parent takes care of nine children, but it has been difficult for the same nine children to take care of one parent, which is 9:1," he noted. Among the required services that OPs need from time to time include health services, food, shelter, clothes and caring. According to health specialists, OP medical services are more expensive compared to other groups. He said some of the challenges that haunt OPs include unavailability of trained staff. Also unavailability of health facilities is another problem that faces OPs in their daily life. He added that few research studies on OP issues is another challenge that affects service provision to OPs in the country. The Local Government and Regional Administration (LGRA) Coordinator for OPs' services, Mr Shaban Mhali said there is still an acute shortage of social community workers who are strong instrument in providing services to OPs. He said the current statistics in Tanzania show that the ratio is at 1:200,000 but the World Health Organisation (WHO) requires the ratio to fall on 1:20.