THE African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights (ACHPR) has ordered the release from prison of Tanzanian Mgosi Makungu, who was jailed 30 years for armed robbery after local courts failed to provide him documents for an appeal process for over 20 years. Composed of nine justices, the ACHPR found that such failure prevented Makungu from exercising his right to appeal because he lacked the documents necessary to pursue his appeal and by so doing Tanzania violated Article 7(1)(a) of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. In its judgment, the ACHPR ordered Tanzania, as the Respondent State, “to release the applicant from prison and provide him with the certified true copies of the records of proceedings and judgments of two criminal cases within 30 days of the notification of the judgment.” The ACHPR, led by its President Justice Sylvain Oré further directed the respondent state “to report on measures taken within 45 days to implement the order” and also grant the applicant 30 days to file submissions on reparations. In determining this case, the ACHPR sitting in Arusha City, first considered whether it had material, personal, temporal and territorial jurisdiction over the matter. The African Court held that it had material jurisdiction over the case since the application alleged violations of rights provided for in the African Charter to which the United Republic of Tanzania was a Party. The African Court also found that it had personal jurisdiction over the parties since on March 29, 2010, when Tanzania deposited the Declaration provided for under Article 34(6) of the Protocol to the African Charter on the establishment of the ACHPR. Such declaration allows individuals such as the applicant to file the application as per Article 5(3) of the Protocol. The African Court further held that it had temporal jurisdiction because the alleged violations were continuous in nature. The ACHPR also considered the validity of the respondent State’s objection to admissibility of the application due to the applicant’s failure to exhaust local remedies before filing the application before it as required by Article 56 of the African Charter and Rule 40 of the Rules of the Court. On this point, the respondent State argued that the applicant had not utilised the local remedy of filing a constitutional petition to the High Court of Tanzania, a procedure provided for under the Basic Rights and Duties Enforcement Act of Tanzania for the enforcement of fundamental rights. The Court noted that the requirement of exhaustion of local remedies must be complied with before an application was filed, but such a condition might be exceptionally dispensed with if local remedies were not available, they were ineffective, insufficient or the procedures to pursue them were unduly prolonged. In the judgment, the Court also observed that the applicant attempted to use available remedies by filing a notice of appeal dated April 16, 1996 in respect of a criminal case No 278 of 1995 and a notice of appeal dated June 22, 1996 in respect of a criminal case No 244 of 1995. The ACHPR further noted that, the applicant requested for the certified true copies of the records of proceedings and judgments in respect of these cases to file the actual appeal, but in vain. “The applicant followed up with the magistrate in charge of the District Court of Bunda and the district registrar and presiding judge of the High Court in Mwanza without any success,” the justices of the Court observed. They noted that the applicant had sought the intervention of the respondent State’s Commission on Human Rights and Good Governance, but all his efforts were futile. Thus, the ACHPR was satisfied that although local remedies were available, the applicant could not utilise them because the respondent State had failed to provide him with the certified true copies of the records of proceedings and judgments he needed to file his appeal.