ILALA District Court yesterday found businessman Mohamed Kiluwa, an accused in a 90m/- corruption trial, with a case to answer. The accused is alleged to have bribed the Land, Housing and Human Settlements Developments Minister William Lukuvi, with 40,000 US dollars (over 90m/-). Resident Magistrate Samwel Obas ruled that the prosecution, led by an officer with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Maghela Ndimbo, had established a prima facie case in terms of section 231 of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), requiring the businessman to give his defence. Under the circumstances, the magistrate ordered Kiluwa, the Director of Kiluwa Steel Group Co. Ltd and Kiluwa Free Processing Zone, to start giving his defence testimony in attempt to disprove the charges against him on December 17, 2018. Advocate for the businessman, Iman Madega, informed the court that his client will give his defence under oath and will call one witness to support the defence case. During the hearing of the prosecution’s case, six witnesses were called to the witness box before concluding its case. The term prima facie is used in modern legal English to signify that upon initial examination, sufficient corroborating evidence appears to exist to support the case. In common law jurisdictions, prima facie denotes evidence that, unless rebutted, would be sufficient to prove a particular proposition or fact. Therefore, the prima facie case is the establishment of legally required rebuttable presumption. Prima facie case is a cause of action or defence that is sufficiently established by a party’s evidence to justify a verdict in his or her favour, provided that the other party has not rebutted the evidence. According to the law, at close of prosecution’s case during the criminal trial, the accused may submit to the judge or magistrate that there is no case for him or her to answerIf the judge or magistrate agrees, then the matter is dismissed and the accused acquitted without having to present any evidence in their defence. If the judge or magistrate does not accept the submission, the case continues and the defence must present their case. The prosecution alleges that Kiluwa committed the offence on July 16, 2018 at between 06.10 and 14.00 hours at the Ministry of Land, Housing and Human Settlement Developments Office at Kivukoni Front Street in Ilala District. Being the Director of Kiluwa Steel Group Co. Ltd and Kiluwa Free Processing Zone, the businessman is alleged to have corruptly given the minister 40,000 US dollars as inducement to forebear him to submit to the ministry office certificate of occupancy of 57 plots. The plots, according to the prosecution, are of Block B Kikongo and Block D Disunyura Industrial Area, Kibaha Township in Coast region. The prosecution told the court that the matter was in relation to the principal’s affairs of Minister Lukuvi.