YOUNG Africans continued to hold the pilot seat after their closest challengers, Azam FC were held to a 2-2 draw by KMC at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Yanga remained firm at the helm with 41 points as Azam who were expected to dethrone Yanga, settled at second position with 40 points following a draw with KMC. KMC, one of the Premier League debutants shocked Azam in the 18th minute of a game with a goal netted by George Sangija. Azam fought back for an equaliser, but they had to wait until the 45th minute when Tafadzwa Kutinyu levelled the matter. KMC added the second goal in the 63rd minute of a tense game through Rayman Mgungila. Azam fought brilliantly and Donald Ngoma equalised it in the 85th minute. Lipuli FC defeated Ruvu Shooting 2-1 in another match at Samora Stadium in Iringa. Firm at the pilot seat, Young Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera praised the positive mentality shown by his players after a 2-1 win over Biashara United on Sunday night at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Second half goals from Abdallah Shaibu ‘Ninja’ in 70th minute and Heritier Makambo in the 80th minute cancelled Biashara United’s opening goal scored in the 38th minute by Abdulmajjid Mangalo. The win allowed Yanga to stretch their unbeaten run to 15 matches. The victory saw Yanga ascending to the top of the league table with 41 points from 15 matches thereby creating a 14-point gap with their traditional rivals Simba with 27 points. Second-placed Azam FC who have collected 40 points, have played 16 games. Defending champions Simba SC are third on the ladder with 27 points from 12 encounters but they would still be glued on the third slot even though they managed to win their remaining three matches in hand. Speaking at a post-match press briefing, Zahera said the mentality of his players is improving game after game without taking into consideration the occupation of their opponents on the league table. “We always approach each game with winning mentality putting aside whether the team is low ranked or not because every team in the league is capable to do better,” he said. He added that after conceding the goal in the first half, he told the players to relax and make a positive comeback in the second half as they did against Tanzania Prisons in their previous league fixture at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya where they roared back from one goal down to win 3-1. “I was thrilled to see that what I told my players during the half time break was executed perfectly in the second half,” he said. Furthermore, Zahera could not help but rather shower his praises on the team’s hit man Heritier Makambo who netted the winner in the 80th minute of the epic game. “He (Makambo) has transformed a lot after losing weight such that he is now able to utilise his height to the best of his ability. He is flexible than before and he can score at any moment in the game,” he said. On his part, Biashara United player Sospeter Kasori said lack of experience in the league was what affected them most on the day. “We played against one of the big teams in the country who have been in the league for many years and have great players as well but for us, we are still coping with the demands of the league and I am sure that we will get the required rhythm as the season unfolds,” he said. Biashara United were the first to open the score sheet on the day in the 38th minute courtesy of Abdulmajjid Mangalo whose electric shot easily past Yanga goalkeeper Ramadhani Kabwili and enabled his side to go into the break with one goal advantage. Zahera was forced to make three crucial substitutions early in the second half bringing on board Papy Tshishimbi, Pius Buswita and Amis Tambwe for Feisal Salum, Thabani Kamusoko and Raphael Daudi respectively. Again, Amis Tambwe who scored two goals against Tanzania Prisons proved his worth to the team as his penetration pass picked Abdallah Shaibu in the box who fired a grass-cutter into gaping goal mouth before Makambo assured Yanga all three points ten minutes later.