THE year 2019 is around the corner and among the most notable events that are on the calendar for the year is the election of local government leaders. The polls will see all those vying for local government positions flexing their muscles and trying to convince the electorate that they deserve to be given the chance to work for the people. It is, however, unfortunate that the process (elections) that is meant as a yardstick for democracy in the world, is sometimes rocked by ugly scenes of violence. This usually happens during campaigns or after the results have been announced. The election-related violence has been a thorn in the flesh for many countries in the world. And, in some cases it leads to destruction of property and in other countries it has seen people being killed. Just fresh in many people’s minds is the killing of 6 people in Zimbabwe when the army opened fire on protestors who had invaded the streets when election results were being announced in Harare. The army were called in after the police were overwhelmed when the people destroyed properties in the city. This is just but a tip of an iceberg as many other countries are plunged into mayhem because of elections. But, the police force in the country has assured the public that it is well prepared to ensure that the polls are carried out in a peaceful environment. The inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro made the assurance before President John Magufuli, who officiated at the closing ceremony of the training to 513 police officers among them 120 Assistant Superintendent and 393 Assistant Superintendent of Police at the Dar es Salaam Police Academy in the city on Friday. “We know that the country will soon hold local government elections, we are organised and well prepared to ensure that all goes smoothly,” the IGP affirmed. This is good news and is a positive development in the preservation of peace in the country. Tanzania is known for being a haven of peace. Despite being surrounded by neighbours who have experienced breaches of peace, the country has remained peaceful. It is therefore important that we continue preserving the peace which the founding fathers of this country fought hard to establish. With elections around the corner, it is the duty of each and every citizen to preserve peace. The electorate, especially youth, should desist from being used by politicians to engage in violent activities that breach peace. It is high time each and everyone plays his or her role to preserve peace.