TANZANIA Revenue Authority (TRA) was yesterday told to stop shutting down businesses in an excuse of unpaid taxes and instead offer public awareness on tax related matters. Finance and Planning Minister Dr Philip Mpango  warned the tax collection agency against harassing traders, saying the approach will not help the government in its drive to collect more revenues. And, if indeed need arises to close down the business particularly for tax evaders, a permit to shut down the business should be sought from TRA Commissioner General. Dr Mpango also directed TRA officials to collect tax according to rules and regulations and not otherwise saying tax estimates should not be offensive. He gave the directives while addressing reporters on the five-month national economic growth and execution of the national budget for the July- November, 2018 period. Dr Mpango said TRA should conduct awareness training to traders on the importance of paying tax and keeping record books as well as application of the best modalities in tax payment. “You should give them an audience to discuss and come up with the best tax payment schedule of the accumulated taxes and the stated penalties that are in-line with the Revenue Act,” said the minister. He cautioned TRA officials over the use of abusive, threatening and flamboyant language against traders, especially large taxpayers with good revenue paying record, saying the trend will never be entertained. “Any TRA official found liable of such acts and other unethical conducts will face both disciplinary and legal actions,” he said. He added: “TRA staff who will be accused of corrupt practices should be suspended to pave way for free investigations by the legal bodies like police and Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB).” Dr Mpango also directed TRA to increase efforts in dealing with tax evaders especially those importing goods through unauthorised entries along the Indian Ocean shore. He said the government appreciates the contribution of the business community towards the national development, reaffirming the government commitment in setting up conducive environment through the review of various taxes and levies that impede the business from prospering. Dr Mpango called on the public and tax stakeholders to submit in writing their proposals in new tax sources as well as recommendations for review and amendment of tax rate for the next fiscal year.