TANZANIA Gender Network Programme (TGNP) Board Chairperson, Ms Asseny Muro, said gender issues are important and need to be placed at the forefront when it comes to allocation of funds. “If it is agreed that gender issues should be given magnitude, fund allocation for implementation should also be given priority,” she said yesterday as she launched a one day workshop in Dar es Salaam attended by planning and development officers from various municipalities across the country. Representatives of planning and development municipal officers who attended the workshop were drawn from Mbeya, Mara, Morogoro, Tarime, Kigoma, Kishapu, Mara, and Dar es Salaam, to mention but a few. “We have invited them due to the critical position they hold in the municipalities. We want to give them pointers on how to merge gender issues in development plans so that they can educate and bring awareness to other departments for the ingenuity to be implemented,” she explained. According to Ms Muro, TGNP has prepared a guide with support from United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and Swedish International Development and Cooperation Agency (SIDA) which gives a background of Tanzania’s position in development, type of policies and guidelines that direct the road to success, providing a summary of the development status. “The guide also provides direction on why it is important to place gender issues in development plans,” she affirmed. She added that development and planning officers have been specifically targeted as they are the mobilisers of the community development, and can be dubbed as field officers who get in touch with the communities first hand and get to know challenges they face. “The guideline prepared by TGNP further explains how the government has committed itself on gender issues with other nations, touching the country’s agenda of vision 2025 which aims at achieving a high quality livelihood for each person and attain good governance through the rule of law and develop a strong and competitive economy,” she elaborated. Edifying on the vision, she said that it is envisioned that by 2025 gender equality and empowerment of women in all socio-economic and political relations and cultures will be attained as one of the specific achievement. Ms Muro stated that development is an extensive aspect that involves numerous groups of people, and if people don’t place gender issues at the forefront, then few or no women will benefit from the development.