A CALENDAR may be simply described as a system of organizing days for social, religious, commercial or administrative activities which are arranged in time, days, weeks, months to make a year. Primarily we use calendar to identify days, to keep records but through time keeping it also help people to plan their future as year 2018 is coming to an end you may look back from January to see what you have done and calculate your weaknesses. History shows time keeping is one of areas where most of people fail but in Serengeti and other national parks time is not money but an important element for life. They may be short of a printed schedule for a particular year but animals calendar affects our life in one way or another. This is because price of commodities such as maize, sorghum, wheat and groundnuts may be affected when a pangolin appears in Dar es Salaam, Morogoro or Kibaha. This usually happens before rainy season and send shocking waves to farmers in Mpanda, Babati, Karatu, Hanang and Simanjiro districts in Manyara, Handeni, Mvomero and Kilosa who relay this massage to their fellows in Kongwa, Mpwapwa, Kondoa and Chamwino. When this happens it creates problems to people in big cities because maize growers in Songwe, Iringa, Ruvuma, Mbeya, Katavi and Rukwa may decide to reduce or increase supplies in the market because of what the local rain maker tells them after observing signs from a Pangolin. At the beginning of a year in some places the image of a pangolin may be related with what the future has got for that particular area, or a type of a year and create fear or hope when this small and shy mammal predicts drought or good rain for a bigger harvest and well being to all people in that particular year. Many stories and beliefs go hand in hand with almost every calendar year but among many creatures on the Earth. Cicadas are insects which lead mysterious life which follow a calendar that enable some species to disappear and reappear after 13 to 17 years. Scientists say this happens when specie goes into a secret place where they stay out of reach for almost two decades until the situation and weather allow them to reappear in Amani forest, Udzungwa or Kitulo national park. Nyenje or Cicadas are very smart insects, knowing that to see the world is once in a lifetime. To reduce the danger of dying before your time most individual come out during night hours when most birds and reptiles are sleeping. Scientists say from a secret place located about 2.5 meters on the ground, a cicada is able to measure temperature on the earth’s surface and detect the right time and hours to come out. When the ground temperature reach 17.9 Centigrade, on the southern highlands especially in Njombe, Makambako and Mbeya after every 13 to 17 years a unique specie of cicadas reappear and draw attention from everybody in the regions. Miraculously these insects are resilient as will dig their way out without being afraid that the surface might be covered with hard shell, water or any other obstacles. Once an insect reach the surface it will molt by removing the old cover and wear a new one which is resistant to rain, sun and wind which dominate the weather on the earth’s surface. While being led by biological clock which is located inside their bodies, most species when they reach the earth’s surface prefer to stay in one location for about seven days, experienced zoologists say in northern regions of Tanga, Manyara, Arusha and Kilimanjaro cicadas prefer to emerge between September and October before short rains that is why in Marangu they are known as Shiwambamvuo in simple English they are predictors of rains. In Machame, Rombo and Kibosho you will always hear a lot of rumors rotating from one village to another when the cicadas fail to sing on time, confusion spreads from Kibosho to Bomang’ombe and from Mtoni to Himo where buyers from Southern Sudan and Kenya come for the precious cereal. This may happen while famers in Kikatiti and Mererani wait for short rains to plant different crops and songs from cicadas is sign of good weather although on their side the songs are performed according to their own timetable which provides them a short time on the earth’s surface. Their lifecycle allow them to spend one of the shortest time on the earth’s surface and any individual which fail to utilize the opportunity usually die as a unproductive cicada. It is being said that approximately these schedules allow one insect to spend a period which covers not more than four weeks on the earth’s surface. During this short period, a male must work, walk and sing very smart to get a partner and mount her before his life come to an abrupt end immediately after ejaculation while females are allowed to live until they lay eggs in a good location. At once a female cicada is capable of producing 20 to 600 eggs which she burry them into a safe location then nature take its course of terminating her life immediately after accomplishing this important duty for life. Insects which lack wings or nymphs are hatched from the eggs after ten days then nature direct them to dig 2.5 meter long burrows where they stay while eating different things including roots of plants. Regardless it is a common or leap year, most specie of these mysterious insects spend two to four years on the ground but few stay six to seventeen years before they reappear on the earth’s surface. Believe it or not, every year at the end of November short rains fall on the grasslands of Greater Serengeti Ecosystem. This is a welcoming gesture for migratory animals who arrive on the southern part in prime areas such as Seronera and Ndutu. Scientists say the short rains stimulate the growth of fresh and nutritious grasses which attract 1,300,000 wildebeests, 250,000 zebra and more than 300,000 antelopes. Every year in orderly timing they move from south to east, north and west then back to south following the emerging rich in minerals greener grasses, since they need enough food and water all year around wildebeest, zebra and gazelles must follow the movement of the rains. Enabled by special and powerful instinct wildebeests and other animals involved in the epic journey are capable of smelling storms of rains building up many miles away. This is an exceptional ability which plays a bigger role in the timing of the rains for their departure from one part to another thanks goes to nature for growing grasses during and after the rainy seasons. On the other hand, scientists say in Serengeti the movement is caused by the curiosity of animals to search for new source of fresh grasses and the need to get into the right place at the right time of the year. Archeologists and zoologists say the epic journey of Serengeti is one of the oldest natural events on Earth because history shows that wildebeests evolved in southern part of Africa about 2.5 million years ago. But due to different changes in their natural ecology, these antelopes split into two groups and migrated to East Africa. From one leap to a common year, with all the challenges which they pass through from the beginning to the end of their annual migration, from those years to date wildebeests have managed to stand firmly against natural and manmade problems and stand as one of trademark tourist attraction in East Africa. Without a printed schedule hanged on a tree, wildebeests stays in Maasai Mara game reserve of Kenya for a period that cover not more than five weeks. Then the whole group starts another part of this thrilling journey back to their promised land on October when they head southward back to Tanzania. As people start to arrange for end of the year holidays, every year in the month of November the migration come back into the southern part of Serengeti national park where they start preparation for a new journey to an elusive promised land. It’s not only wildebeests, zebra and antelopes which follow calendar different species of insects, birds and other animals follow well defined timetable. I don’t know what do you have to say about 2007, 2017, 2018 or the coming 2019, in the wild things do not follow beliefs they all follow what nature have for them packed in a time frame. This happened regardless of weather and condition which controls a calendar in Ngorongoro, Ruaha, Mikumi, Saadani, Mkomazi, Serengeti and other national parks in the world. Meanwhile in many features, soothsayers and astrologers believe that 2018 is related to 2007, as scientists and historians prepare records for whatever happened in this year psychologists say nature has its own ways of expressing its power in any time regardless of what people in our villages, township and cities say about it, let us work hard but smart, I wish you a very prosperous 2019.