KENYA has suggested that common resources it shares with Tanzania are better managed together in safeguarding and promoting their growth and development in a win-win situation. That was unveiled in Dar es Salaam yesterday by Kenyan High Commissioner to Tanzania, Mr Dan Kazunga, adding that managing the resources together was the best option, instead of every State doing it in isolation, which may not bear them lasting fruits. “The two countries are not only sharing physical borders, but also have best tourist attractions in Africa which as well need collaboration for ‘full exploitation’ and benefit them all,” further said the envoy, while briefing the ‘Daily News’ ahead of his country’s 55th Independence Day, being celebrated today. He said joint efforts are needed from both sides to safeguard the ‘blue economy resources’ and protect them from degradation caused by uncontrolled human activities and climate changes. “Both countries share Lakes like Jipe, Natron and even the great Victoria and rivers such as Mara, if citizens of either side cut trees uncontrollably or increase human activities near banks, it means both countries will lose some economic benefits like fishing, therefore, joint efforts are of unique importance if we are to benefit all,” said Mr Kazungu. The ambassador further cited an example of Kenya Airways that flies direct to New York, saying that if it is boarded by a tourist(s) destined to Tanzania, both countries should have access to services like visa and other information within Nairobi to avoid inconveniences that are unfriendly to the visitors. To achieve this, Mr Kazungu hinted that it was an important task for them as States to initiate talks to discuss issues and come up with solutions for them to boost their togetherness in resources and industrial and development promotions. “I realise that business is competition, yes, but our countries have to compete towards achieving a common end,” he pointed out. Equally, he suggested that Dar and Nairobi should put at bay signs of conflict, which may affect their common goals and prospects. He further suggested for a joint continuation of knowledge sharing between their citizens, especially in education in both private and public sectors, to harness deep knowledge in human resources, and widen cross-borders’ businesses as well as their natural resources.