FINANCIALLY challenged Fastjet Airlines Limited’s drama continues with the company Executive Chairman, Lawrence Masha appointing himself the airline’s Accountable Manager. The aviation legislations provide for all airlines to have accountable managers whose responsibilities are to manage the airline operations. The Accountable Manager, according to the law, must have sufficient experience in the management of airline operations and certification in air operations. But, Mr Masha, a former Home Affairs Minister and lawyer by profession had never worked in any airline company prior to his appointment as the company’s executive chairman, just a month ago. Mr Masha who has reportedly acquired 68 per cent of shares of the ailing carrier took over the company, which parted ways with its London based holding company—Fastjet Plc Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) Director General (DG), Hamza Johari on December 17, 2018 announced that Fastjet Tanzania had lost qualifications to operate in the country due to its frequent flight cancellations. The air aviation regulator gave the low-cost carrier a 28-day ultimatum to sort out its management issues, saying the airline owed almost 6bn/- to service providers, including TCAA. For Fastjet to resume operations, TCAA demanded the airline to submit its financial and business plans after the company was taken over by Tanzanian investors, appoint the Accountable Manager, clear all its outstanding debts and purchase sufficient planes. Mr Masha (pictured) was yesterday quoted by a section of the media as saying that the airline had already leased a Boeing 737-500 airliner from South Africa but TCAA refused its entry subject to clearing of all debts. But, TCAA DG refuted the claims yesterday, saying the regulator had received an email communication from the airline company requesting to bring in the country its leased aircraft just one day before Christmas. He said the authority was still working on the request, “On the same day, TCAA equally received an email communication detailing the company’s financial ability and Mr Masha, the company’s Executive Chairman said he had appointed himself the Accountable Manager.’’ Fastjet PLC pulled out of Tanzania after it was allegedly denied new routes in the country as the company had bought new ATR aircraft to serve the domestic market. Mr Masha is said to have upped his stake in Fastjet Tanzania, from four to 68 per cent after buying 47 per cent of the company’s shares, which were formerly under local investors’ control and Fastjet PLC’s 17 per cent stake, becoming the company’s majority shareholder. However, Mr Marsha remains in a big dilemma as he struggles to clear all the outstanding debts of the airline. According to Mr Johari, the airline was initially supposed to clear its 1.1bn/- debt to TCAA but until yesterday, it had paid 760m/- and 58,000 US dollars, remaining with 156,000 dollar balance. The company has not yet cleared its outstanding debts with Tanzania Airport Authority (2.1bn/-), Swissport (2.1bn/-), Kilimanjaro Airport Development Company Limited (286m/-) and a Mwanza based service supplier (2.1bn/-). TCAA is holding the airline’s two aircraft pending the clearance of all the debts and should it fails to work on the given conditions, the authority will revoke its operation licence as per the requirements of the law, said Mr Johari.