WORKS, Transport and Communication Deputy Minister Atashasta Nditiye has called on local colleges to keep pace with the government's efforts to purchase new planes by producing enough aviation experts. "Purchase of new planes and construction of standard gauge railway will be meaningless if we will be depending on foreign experts," the deputy minister said at the 34th graduation ceremony of the National Institute of Transport (NIT) in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. He directed NIT management to ensure that it offers better quality training that will help to produce experts who meet the market standards. He commended the NIT's plans to start training pilots from next year, saying the move will boost the number of aviation experts in the country. "I call upon the institute to ensure that this course starts early next year so that the government can save money that it has been spending on training experts abroad," he stated. He counselled the graduates to use the skills and knowledge they have acquired from the institute to develop the country through creation of their own jobs and employing others. "I ask you students to stick to your studies and embrace creativity when you are in colleges so that you become employable after completing your studies instead of engaging in activism," he said. NIT's Rector Prof Zacharia Mganilwa said preparations to start offering the pilot programme are complete by almost 90 per cent, including classrooms, textbooks, trainers and others. “What is only remaining is to obtain accreditation from the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA),” Prof Mganilwa explained. The TCAA will issue the accreditation to the institute after purchasing the trainer aircrafts for demonstration. The college intends to procure five trainer aircrafts by July next year. After procuring five aircrafts, the institute will have the capacity of training 10 pilots, annually. The money to purchase the planes is part of the loan amounting to 21 million US dollars (about 48bn/-) that NIT secured from the World Bank. The current number of pilots stands at 400 against 800 which are required to meet the demand. Out of the total number of the available pilots, only 40 of them are locals and the remaining are foreigners. Still 60 per cent of the operating pilots are above 55 years old, thus pushing for the need to produce more pilots. Speaking over this year’s graduation, Prof Mganilwa said 287 students of logistics and transport have graduated. At last week's graduation, the first batch of the cabin crew students graduated. 