EXECUTION agreement for the eagerly awaited hydropower project along Rufiji River was sealed yesterday, with 2,115 megawatts of electricity promise. President John Magufuli and Egyptian Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly witnessed the deal signing between Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) and Egyptian firms—Arab Contractors and El Sewedy Electric—at the State House in Dar es Salaam for the envisaged 2.9 billion US dollars (about 6.5tri/-) project. Dr Magufuli argued that reliability and affordability of hydropower as compared to other sources were the major factors for consideration of the project, which is the brainchild of the Father of the Nation, the Late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, since the 1970s. The president charged that the mega hydropower project at Stieglers’ Gorge will enable the country to produce reliable and affordable electricity for the country’s blueprint of industrial based middle-income economy by 2025. He scolded the ‘prophets of doom’ who have been disparaging the project, claiming that it will devastate the environment within the Selous Game Reserve, saying the project will cover only between 1.8 and two per cent of the reserve. “Tanzania has reserved 32 per cent of its landmass as protected areas, we need electricity for our people because we lose almost 200,000 hectares of forests annually for charcoal… at that pace, all trees in Selous risk being cut down in just 23 years,” Dr Magufuli stated. Installed electricity generation capacity in the country from hydropower plants, natural gas and independent power producers, which use heavy furnace oil currently stands at just 1,560MW. The 2,115MW Rufiji plant is expected to greatly boost power generation. Hydro generated electricity, President Magufuli said, costs 36/- per unit as compared to wind at 103/-, geothermal at 118/-, nuclear 65/-. natural gas at 147/- and heavy furnace oil at 426/- per unit. He pointed out that power tariffs in Tanzania remain the highest as compared to other countries like Egypt’s 4.6 dollar cents, South Korea (US 8 cents), South Africa (US 7.4 cents), India (US 6.8 cents), United Kingdom (US 1.5 cents and United States (US 0.2 cents). Reliable and reasonably priced electricity from the Rufiji hydropower plant will play a significant role in the economy, enabling industries to reduce operation costs and eventually make their products competitive in the international market. “Tanzania and Egypt enjoy longstanding relations dating back to Mwalimu Nyerere and Abdul Gamal Nasser and that is why we did not construct the hydro power in Kagera River that could reduce the flow of water from Lake Victoria along River Nile to Egypt,” he stated. Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Madbouly said the project will play a critical role in strengthening bilateral relations between the two countries. “Egyptian institutions will closely work with the government of Tanzania in fostering relations and development between the two countries. Many Egyptians companies are currently working jointly with their Tanzanian counterparts to spur industrialisation and development,” he explained. The historic event was attended by among others Vice- President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, Speaker Job Ndugai, Chief Justice Professor Ibrahim Juma, cabinet ministers, clerics  and leaders of political parties.