MAINLAND Premier League leader’s Young Africans will be looking to maintain their unbeaten record when they clash against Mbeya City at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya today. Yanga have been invisible so far in the top flight this season, winning 15 matches and registered just two draws in their past 17 matches so far and today. Mwinyi Zahera charges currently sitting top of the table with 47 points massive seven points ahead of second placed Azam FC, will be looking to wrap up their 16th win in the league. Mbeya City will be looking to halt the Jangwani Street lads impressive run. They will also be aiming to bounce back to winning ways, following their 2-0 defeat in their previous tie against Lipuli at home. Before the Lipuli encounter, Mbeya City were held to a 1-1 draw by Coastal Union, the hosts placed seventh on the log with 23 points from 17 games are as well targeting to break a two - game winless streak so they can move closer to the top four. However, Mbeya City should brace for the tough duel because Yanga is almost a full house with most key players returning back in the squad, meaning that Yanga will enter into today’s encounter as favorites to emerge with maximum three points. Yanga received a major boost with the return of midfielder Feisal Salum, striker Mrisho Ngasa who were serving suspensions, while veteran midfielder, Haruna Moshi is also likely to make his league debut in Yanga colours. Twin strikers Herieter Makambo and Ammis Tambwe are likely to partner upfront today, as they seek to continue with their prolific goals scoring form. Yanga are already in Mbeya, where they arrived on Thursday ahead of the match, thanks to drum up campaign by coach Zahera, who through social networks called on Yanga members and fans to raise funds to enable the team travel by air to Mbeya in time for the match. A win for Yanga today will see them collecting all six points at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium this season, following their 3-1 victory against another Mbeya region based side Tanzania Prisons on December 3rd this year. Other league matches lined up for the day include the clash between second placed Azam FC against Mtibwa Sugar at the Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro. Lipuli will host Ndanda FC from Mtwara at Samora Stadium in Iringa and African Lyon, who in their previous game lost 1-0 to Yanga at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Kaluta Stadium in Arusha, will host Shinyanga’s Mwadui FC. Lyon will be out to search for their first victory at their new home ground as well as looking for their third league victory since the kick off this league season as they battling to rescue themselves from relegation zone. Meanwhile, Singida United have gone into hide to plot the downfall of defending champions Simba as they face off at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam tomorrow. Singida United, who are settled in the 12th position with 19 points from 16 games are targeting to stun Simba and distract their title defence campaign. The Msimbazi Reds are back in league actions after eliminating Zambia’s Nkana FC in CAF Champions League, to cruise into the group stage of the continental top tier clubs championship. Simba, who are currently placed third on the league standing with 30 points from 13 games are 17 points behind leader’s Yanga and ten points behind second placed Azam.