TANZANIA Golf Union (TGU) has unveiled the calendar of all 2019 introducing many changes aiming to the new season more thrilling. TGU President, Chris Martin told the ‘Daily News’ from Moshi yesterday that the 2019 calendar which clearly differentiate the national level tournaments with the club level events, has been already distributed to the affiliate clubs so that they prepare effectively for the coming year. Martin said that TGU has identified eight national level competitions that will be fully organised by the union for the first time starting from next year. He added everything is in place for the new season , and urged golf practitioners to be ready for busiest season in 2019. According the calendar, the Southern Highlands Open Championship scheduled for early February at Mufindi Golf Club in Iringa, will officially open the golf season. He said it will be followed by the Northern Province Open to be held at Arusha Gymkhana Club (AGC) later in February before Tanzania Stroke Play Championship takes centre stage a month later. Other national level competitions include Tanzania Juniors Open Championship to be held at Tanzania People’s Defense Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam in July. Tanzania Open Championship at Morogogo Gymkhana Club August. October‘s Nyerere Masters to be held at Kili Golf Club in Arusha and Arusha Open at AGC, before Safari Open conclude the national events in November at Kili Golf. “There are eight national level tournaments that TGU will work on them to insure they carry the deserved national status,” he said. Martin however, said that TGU has already taken a step forward by securing sponsorship in almost half of the listed events, while is looking forward to find more sponsors for other remained events. “We are happy to announce that we have already secured sponsors who will bankroll some of the events. We are still working on the remaining events,” he said. TGU has recently announced major reforms in organizing the national level competitions, whose implementation would be in the 2019 calendar. According to the calendar, other tournaments will remained at club level. Besides the national level competitions, TGU, according to Martin will be organizing regional, continental or international level events that include All Africa Challenge, East African Zone Four Competition and the World Junior Championship.