TEETHING is a normal part of a baby’s development during the first year of life. Most babies get their first tooth between four and seven months of age. The first teeth that poke through the gums are the central incisors, which are located on the bottom front. While most infants get their first teeth months after birth, some babies are born with one or more teeth. These are called natal teeth. Natal teeth are relatively rare, occurring in about one out of every 2,000 births. It can be a shock if your baby is born with teeth. But you don’t need to worry or take action unless the teeth interfere with feeding, or are a choking hazard. A child whose natal teeth cause problems should be taken to a paediatrician as soon as possible. Natal teeth can seem mysterious, but there are certain conditions that can increase the chances of babies being born with teeth. These teeth may be seen in babies with a cleft palate or lip. Babies with cleft lips or palates are more common than those with natal teeth. Babies who are born with irregularities in dentin (the calcified tissues that help form teeth) may also have natal teeth. Though rare, it is not abnormal that a baby is born with teeth because in all newborns the first set of teeth is already there, just under the gums. Thus in the few whose teeth are visible it should not breed superstition. Teeth start forming when the foetus is about four to six weeks old. The two lower teeth are the most common location of the neonatal teeth. Medical literature shows that in many African tribes, children born with teeth were killed soon after birth because they were believed to bring misfortune to the community. This is wrong. Teeth in newborns pose no threat to anyone or to the growing infant. If the teeth are not loose and do not interfere with breastfeeding, they should stay. Parents should be aware that crude methods like scrubbing them off or removing them at home exposes the child to gum infection and bleeding that can lead to death. When a baby is born with teeth, the medical term is natal teeth, whereas incisors that develop within 30 days after birth are called neonatal teeth. Other terms used to refer to these teeth include congenital teeth, foetal teeth, predecidual teeth among other terms. The child’s first two teeth usually appear in the mouth at about six months of age although in girls it could begin at five months. They are referred to as milk teeth, whereas eruption of the remaining 18 primary teeth occurs in the first two years of age. This occurs approximately at the rate of one more tooth per month. The exact cause for premature eruption or for appearance of natal and neonatal teeth is unknown. Indeed, parents should embrace the newborn’s toothy smile. If the tooth is loose however, it should be removed (preferably by a specialist) to prevent the child from swallowing or breathing it in. In some cases, removal of these teeth may result in the child not having milk teeth. When this happens, they can be replaced when permanent teeth emerge at about five to seven years of age. Teeth can erupt before the normal time—which is six months—and they can vary in shape and size. They may also have an opaque yellow-brownish colour. Unless necessary, the teeth should be allowed to stay in place because their removal affects the development of the jaw and subsequent teeth. Their forceful removal causes infection of the gum and surrounding tissue, which could turn fatal if prompt medical attention is not sought. “The expectations about the eruption of the first teeth are great and are greater when the teeth appear early in the oral cavity. Now, let us take a look at the necessity of human teeth. Most of us take our teeth for granted—until something goes wrong. Not only do our teeth help us chew and digest food, they also play an important role in speech, and impact our health overall. By brushing up on your dental health knowledge, you will be taking the first step toward giving your teeth the attention they deserve. Humans have two sets of teeth: primary (or baby) teeth and permanent (adult) teeth, which develop in stages. Although the timing is different, the development of each of these sets of teeth is similar. Here are some facts about how the teeth develop: Teeth tend to erupt in a symmetrical manner, meaning that the top molar on your left side should grow in at about the same time as the top molar on the right. Tooth development begins long before your first tooth becomes visible. As mentioned before, a baby’s first tooth appears at around six months, but development of those teeth actually begins during the early second trimester of pregnancy. The crown of a tooth forms first, while the roots continue to develop even after the tooth has erupted. The 20 primary teeth are in place between ages two and three years and remain until around age six. Between ages six and 12 years, these primary teeth begin to fall out to make way for the permanent set of teeth. So, adult teeth start to grow in between ages six and 12. Most adults have 32 permanent teeth. A tooth is divided into two basic parts: the crown, which is the visible, white part of the tooth, and the root, which you cannot see. The root extends below the gum line and helps anchor the tooth into the bone. Your teeth contain four kinds of tissue, and each does a different job. These include: Enamel. This is the visible substance that covers the tooth crown. Harder than bone, enamel protects the vital tissues within the tooth. Enamel is made up of hydroxyapatite, phosphorous, and calcium. Underneath the enamel you find dentin, which is calcified and looks similar to bone. Dentin is not quite as hard as enamel, so it's at greater risk for decay should the enamel wear away. Cementum This tissue covers the tooth root and helps anchor it into the bone. It is softer than enamel and dentin. The best way to protect this softer tissue from decay is by taking good care of your gums. Cementum has a light yellow color and is usually covered by the gums and bone. But with inadequate dental care, the gums may become diseased and shrink, exposing the cementum to harmful bacteria. Pulp is at the center and core of your tooth and contains the blood vessels, nerves, and other soft tissues that deliver nutrients and signals to your teeth. The incisors are the eight teeth in the front of your mouth (four on top and four on bottom). These are the teeth that you use to take bites of your food. Incisors are usually the first teeth to erupt—at around six months for your baby teeth, and between ages six and eight years for your adult set. Before I wind up it is imperative to look at the most critical facts. Parents should be aware that babies born with teeth are completely normal. Primary teeth start to form during the embryo phase of human life. The development of primary teeth starts at the sixth week of tooth development as the dental lamina. This process starts at the midline and then spreads back into the posterior region. By the time the embryo is eight weeks old, there are ten buds on the upper and lower arches that will eventually become the primary (deciduous) dentition. These teeth will continue to form until they erupt in the mouth. In the primary dentition there are a total of twenty teeth: five per quadrant and ten per arch. The eruption of these teeth ("teething") begins at the age of six months and continues until 25 to 33 months of age during the primary dentition period. Usually, the first teeth seen in the mouth are the mandibular centrals and the last are the maxillary second molars. The primary teeth are made up of central incisors, lateral incisors, canines, first molars, and secondary molars. There is one tooth in each quadrant, making a total of four of each tooth. All of these are gradually replaced with a permanent counterpart except for the primary first and second molars; they are replaced by premolars.