COMPLAINTS of poor services from customers using services of Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) and local airports operated by the Tanzania Airports Authority (TAA) has drawn the ire of Works, Transport and Communication Minister, Isack Kamwelwe, directing immediately remedy of the grievances. Eng Kamwelwe expressed concerns that he has been receiving complaints from some customers regarding poor services by the two state-owned corporations. “If one complains on your services do not engage in exchanges but instead look out for ways to address the issue. “We should exercise hospitality with our customers otherwise I will not hesitate to take actions against irresponsible employees,” he warned. The minister cited an incident at Terminal II of the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Dar es Salaam where customers had taken issues with the underperforming air conditioning system at the departure lounge a fortnight ago but the glitch has not been fixed. “When I came here that time I directed that the problem should be solved but as we speak nothing has been done; I direct for the last time that the issue should be solved otherwise those involved will face the axe,” he warned. Eng Kamwelwe mentioned another incident when he was himself a victim of poor services at the country’s major aviation gateway when officials took more than ten minutes to open gates for arriving passengers and thus subjecting them unnecessary delays. “It is high time you changed this attitude lest actions are taken against you. The year is coming to an end but by January, next year, I want to see significant changes,” he stated. Adding; “One time I was also travelling from Mwanza Airport to Dar es Salaam but I was astonished when an official of ATCL instead of notifying passengers for boarding through known channels picked on passenger to relay the information to others. This is unacceptable.” He pointed to the fact that the state-owned corporations are meant to offer high-quality services to their customers are in the actual sense the one making them survive. Speaking afterwards, the Director General of TAA, Mr Richard Mayongela, assured the minister of customer- oriented services to customers using its airports. The TAA boss also pledged to fix the air conditioning system at the JNIA which according to him serves between 70 and 75 per cent of all aviation operations in the country.