THE Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Kangi Lugola has emphatically stated that peace and harmony begin at an individual level, before ascending to family, community and national, hence are intertwined and inseparable in development. Making the observation in Dar es Salaam recently, while speaking to various leaders in the city including Dar es Salaam Regional Inter Religious Committee for Peace, he called upon them to preach peace always wherever they are with their faithful followers. The Minister also hinted to them that Tanzanians, irrespective of their different religious affiliations want to live harmoniously and peacefully. He said that all Tanzanians have the obligation to preserve peace, despite some few individuals, who would wish that the country deteriorates into chaos. Mr Lugola said the presence of religious leaders from different denominations in the regional committee, was a clear indication that any individual, who would wish the country to fail, or try to incite the citizens to divide on religious lines, has no room to succeed. The event organised by Dar es Salaam Peace Committee was among other things coloured by Christian hymns and quotations from both the Bible and Quran verses, especially the ones preaching unity and peace, saw the leaders expressing their joy and peace as one voice in the country, being the first experience ever since the nation attained independence from the colonizers. Equally, the Minister advised the leaders to keep on nurturing their followers also with government strategies which require peace maintenance in the country. “Our unity is faced by some temptations…seditious utterances, corruption, moral decays and which are threats also to your sects and are against the law of the land,” he added. “Islam teaches that Godly wisdom recognises that there are different creeds in the world and therefore Muslims are not only here to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ, but also to recognise that our brothers and sisters are remembering the birth of their Messiah,” said Mussa Salim Dar es salaam’s Chief Sheikh. He added that, therefore, it is also marked in Muslims’ faith that Jesus was born and there is only one Jesus meaning that a ‘worthy Muslim’, can never engage in destructive deeds of persecuting other believers opposed to his/her faith and destroy his/her place of worship, but only preach love. On her side, Reverend Getrude Lwakatare who is a member of Parliament and Leader of Mountain of Fire Ministry, advised fellow religious leaders to ‘take a step forward’ instead of only celebrating the ‘religious memorable dates,’ but also ought to prepare their followers to take part in economic and political activities in the country. “Next year is for local government election, let our followers vie for the opportunities, let them study and get employed in private and public sectors so as to be part of the development processes,” she pointed out.