TARIME District Council is now rewarding Traditional Birth Attendants (TBA), who would direct pregnant mothers to deliver in Health Centres in efforts to eliminate maternal deaths in the area. “We are now rewarding traditional birth attendants, who receive women about to deliver in their yards, but instead direct them to Hospitals and other health facilities and indeed this would help reduce maternal deaths,” said Tarime District Council Health Secretary Mrs Neema Alphonce, while talking to the ‘Sunday News’ at the sideline of a training organised in the area by North Mara Gold Mine, recently. Without going into details, she said the district has of late only recorded two maternal death cases this year. “One of the deaths occurred outside the health facilities (in the hands of the community) and one at the hospital. The figure shows maternal deaths in Tarime District Council has gone down at an impressing rate,” she added. While speaking at the three-day meeting attended by health workers from various Health Centres and Dispensaries surrounding North Mara Gold Mine, organised to improve health services of pregnant mothers in order to curb maternal and perinatal deaths in the villages, she hinted that the presence of the mine was vital to them, especially its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) that also funded the workshop. On her side, Reproductive and Child Health Coordinator at Tarime District Council, Ms Beatrice Luomba, said quality improvement in service delivery was part of the training agenda. “Quality improvement includes early stages testing, language use and reception of patients. Patients need care and love. We really want to ensure that no mother or baby is at risk while in a health facility and this should be ongoing,” she pointed out. On behalf of North Mara Gold Mine, Dr Robert Mazengo expressed optimism that health service delivery they are preaching would see major health improvements in the surrounding villages especially at the Health Centres and Dispensaries, they are funding.