DAR ES SALAAM’s Regional Commissioner (RC) Paul Makonda has given a ten-day ultimatum to district authorities in Dar es Salaam to provide petty traders commonly known as Machinga with identity cards. According to the RC, if district councils fail to implement his directives, he will personally intervene and do the job himself. The RC issued the ultimatum at Vingunguti abattoir yesterday as he handed over 60 cows to security organs and health practitioners as motivation for their outstanding performance this year. RC Makonda said among four out of five districts in his region were carrying out the ID supplying exercise at the snail's pace and that in some areas, the exercise smells corruption. "Kigamboni District has carried out the exercise up to 90 per cent so far but I am not satisfied with how the exercise is being carried out in Ilala, Ubungo, Kinondoni and Temeke districts. I call upon the District Commissioners to have the IDs distributed to the intended persons by January 6, or else I will intervene and do the job all alone,” said Makonda. He warned that any corrupt deeds must be shunned by all concerned authorities and that the IDs are to be purchased at 20,000/- as stipulated by the President himself and that any increment is considered to be corruption that must be reported to the concerned authority. At the event, RC Makonda handed 20 cows to Dar es Salaam Special Police Zone, 20 to the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces where he said that this was motivation to the two security organs to serve his region even better in the coming year, through promoting peace, security and rescue services in times of catastrophes. The other 20 cows were handed to the region's health practitioners who according to the RC were doing a great job in saving lives of the city dwellers. The new year presents were received by the Chief of Staff of the Tanzania People's Defence Forces, Lieutenant General Yakubu Hassan Mohamed, Dar es Salaam's Special Police Zone Commander Lazaro Mambosasa and the region's Chief Medical Officer, Dr Grace Magembe.