THE Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute (TARI), in Maruku, Bukoba Rural District, is conducting a study on nine banana varieties believed to be rich in vitamin A. The varieties include Apantu, Biira, Lahi, Muracho, Lai, Pisang-papan, Tumbago, Pilipita and Jo’o. Banana Project Coordinator, Dr Shimwela Mpoki, said they were finalising research on the nine banana varieties rich in vitamin A. After research, the results will be sent to Tanzania Official Seed Certification Institute - Morogoro (TOSCI), which is responsible for field and seed inspection, sampling, seed testing, variety evaluation and verification through NPT, distinctness, uniformity and stability tests (DUS) and control plot testing. TOSCI will later release the varieties to farmers. The new banana varieties will bring new hopes, as a recent survey indicates that almost 41.7 per cent of children in Kagera Region are suffering from malnutrition. The survey also indicates that stunting stands at 34.7 per cent, underweight at 13.4 per cent, wasting at 3.8 per cent, anaemia among children at 59 per cent, vitamin A deficiency at 33 per cent, anaemia among pregnant women at 53 per cent, while low birth weight (LBW) stands at seven per cent. Kagera Regional Nutrition Development Officer, Yusuf Hamis said a national survey conducted last year revealed that Kagera Region led 10 regions in Mainland Tanzania, where malnutrition stood at 41.7 per cent among children aged below five years, while the national average stood at 34 per cent. Other regions are Dodoma, Mwanza, Kigoma, Mbeya, Dar es Salaam, Geita, Tabora, Ruvuma and Lindi. Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Marco Gaguti, on the other hand, contended that the region had enough food reserves and there was no reason at all to have malnutrition among children. Tanzania has made significant progress in improving nutrition among children under five years of age. In 1992–2015, there was a tangible reduction in the number of underweight children and those suffering from chronic malnourishment. Despite these gains, concerns persist regarding a high rate of stunting among children and stark disparities in nutritional status. Given the importance of nutrition in the overall physical and cognitive development of children, there is a need to focus on the first 1,000 days of a child’s life to prevent negative effects of malnutrition. This requires a workable approach to address risk factors, ranging from inadequate food and illness to poor access to safe drinking water, sanitation and hygiene. High rates of anaemia and low body mass index among adolescent girls and pregnant women are also causes of concern. Under nutrition wrecks children’s lives. Parents, especially women, should be educated on the importance of early breastfeeding. There is an urgent need to reduce the prevalence of stunting. The first 1,000 days of a child’s life are very crucial. The brain develops rapidly, laying the foundation for future cognitive and social ability. Broken marriages, gender violence and forced marriage are among the leading causes of malnutrition as mothers are denied enough time to look after their new born babies. Globally, 161 million chronically undernourished children are not getting right nutrients and care at the right time. Investing in nutrition is essential for Tanzania to progress. It is estimated that the country will lose $20 billion by 2025 if the nutrition situation does not improve. In contrast, by investing in nutrition and improving the population’s nutritional status, the country could gain up to $4.7 billion by 2025. Children under 6 months, who were breastfed exclusively, increased significantly in Tanzania, from 29 to 59 per cent between 1996 and 2015. Anaemia among children aged 6 months to 5 years decreased from 72 per cent in 2005 to 59 per cent in 2010.