TANZANIA’S representatives in the continental clubs soccer tournament, Simba Sports Club and Mtibwa Sugar, have an uphill task in their return leg matches of the second round against Zambia’s Nkana Red Devils and Uganda’s Kampala City Council Authority (KCCA) respectively. Both Tanzania representatives were lucky to play their first leg matches of their second round away from home, but the results each team got is what is now going to determine whether or not they are going to go through. Perhaps the worst placed side is Mtibwa Sugar who went down 0-3, as it is going to be extremely difficult for them to score four goals against their Ugandan opponents without the latter scoring against them. Indeed, a team that can score three goals to nil does not only have the ability to score as many goals as possible, but has also the ability to protect their goal against their opponents and that is the problem Mtibwa Sugar would have to deal with. And as usual, through Mtibwa Sugar’s poor performance against their Ugandan counterparts, there is massive lesson to be learnt by Tanzania through the fielding of clubs which have rarely participated in the continental soccer clubs tournaments. When the sugarcane cutters demolished their opponents with a total of five goals, I warned both Mtibwa and Simba against rejoicing. I argued in my sport column that teams both clubs had played against and registered convincing wins were very weak sides. I further wrote that the higher they progressed in their respective soccer clubs tournaments, the more difficult they were likely to face in overcoming their next opponents. Hence the dire need for them to start working both on their individual player’s body conditioning and the team’s stamina. The fact that Mtibwa Sugar were beaten by three goals to nil shows, clearly, that they were outplayed in each and every department. The point is, if you cannot score even a single goal in an entire match against your opponent and in the same measure, you cannot protect your goal, you’re very much unlikely to get anywhere even if you played against the same team in your own backyard. And that’s the position that Mtibwa Sugar presently find themselves in, and if I were Zuberi Katwila what I would have done in the intervening period is spend more time building the team’s stamina. The fact is, Mtibwa Sugar were beaten in Kampala because they failed to match the pace of their counterparts; and they now need to work on that deficiency which unfortunately for them happens to be a national problem. Lack of stamina is a problem one finds in galore in Taifa Stars, Ngorongoro and Serengeti Boys no matter how good the latter team is at present. I have often said in these columns what former Taifa Stars coach, the late Syllersaid Mziray, used to say as he lived on; that was well packed in stamina and general body conditioning stood better chance of doing well in continental soccer tournaments than a team that was only well loaded in skills. Secondly, he used to say that, generally, the standard of the game in the continent was more or less the same; meaning that if a team was well loaded in stamina and general body conditioning of each and every player; and combined that with whatever skill they had, they would win any match in Africa. For Simba, the situation for them is not very bad, because they already have one away goal in the bag after going down 1-2. What this mean is that if they register 1-0 in Dar es Salaam; they would qualify for the third round. But it’s not going to be easy for a Zambian club and that is what they need to put in the back of their mind. One simple question they need to ask themselves is, if they were able to pull out one goal in Kitwe, what would stop their opponents from registering a one all draw in Dar es Salaam, hence canceling out Simba’s one away goal? The point is, if they did it in Kitwe, then there is absolutely no reason why Nkana Red Devils should not it Dar, and this brings us to another point, namely, the dire need for Simba to do what I have advised Mtibwa Sugar to do, work extremely hard both on the team’s stamina and individual player’s body conditioning. A player whose body is well conditioned for the game is hardly injured in the game. My parting shot is both Simba and Mtibwa Sugar need to work extremely hard on their stamina if they want to reach far in their two respective soccer tournaments, Champions League and CAF Cup. For as I have already said, if both go through their present hurdles, they would meet tougher opponents than those they have had in the second round, hence the need to continue work, tirelessly, both in their game and stamina.