PROFESSIONALS in the finance and economy sectors have commended the government for its good progress in removing dirty money from the local market but have warned that the mushrooming real estate subsector might be used to hide it. Giving his personal view on the fight against money laundering and state of revenue collection in the country, the Rector of the Institute of Finance Management (IFM), Professor Tadeo Satta, said here that the government was doing relatively well in curbing the malpractices in the two crucial areas. However, he was of the view that money laundering was a tricky and dirty game played by tricky persons, proposing that the government takes a close look at all areas that might be used to secretly preserve it. “The economic sector has been growing steadily in recent years, and we can see that  the road to a middle income and industrialised nation is paved. But, we still have a long way to go in fighting dirty money that might be traded in a variety of tricks like using real estates,” said Prof Satta. He proposed that one of the strategies for  recovering money hidden in huge developed assets was to tax the owners heavily. On the government’s stance and commitment in revenue collection, Prof Satta remained optimistic  that the efforts were on the right track but was of the view that more deliberate strategies should be allocated on the expansion of the tax base. He said the intervention and dissatisfaction of President John Magufuli on revenue collection targets was timely, but that this should go hand in hand with the massive increase of more tax horizons. Expansion of the tax base, according to him,  was crucial for the country to realise its fiscal policies while making sure that the subsector contributed enormously in the country’s economy than was the case today. Prof Satta was here to attend the 5th graduation ceremony of the IFM Mwanza Centre which saw 291 students conferred with certificates, diplomas, including 16 who  got Master’s Degrees of Science and Finance and Investment. On her part, the Nyamagana District Commissioner, Dr Phillis Nyimbi, who represented the Mwanza Regional Commissioner Mr John Mongella at the event, reminded professionals in the financial sector to respect their noble profession.She was  bitter over misdeeds, citing the banking subsector whereby some banks were inconveniencing their customers by subjecting them to long periods in long queues. The DC said the labour market was still wide for fresh graduates, urging them to be professional and credible.