A NEW report on economic performance in East Africa has revealed that Tanzania is among three countries expected to drive the region’s economic growth further in 2018 and 2019.Alongside Tanzania, the two other countries are Kenya and Rwanda. According to the Report identified as the ‘East Africa Economic Outlook 2018’, the potential exploitation of oil and gas discoveries in Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, and Ethiopia offers growth opportunities for economic growth. In addition, urbanization, information and communications technology (ICT) development can support industrialisation and structural transformation, given an appropriate economic policy environment. The report prepared by the African Development Bank (AfDB) further observes that economic growth in East Africa has historically been driven by growth in agriculture due to its major contribution to GDP and employment in most countries. “Agriculture’s leading role has persisted. It contributed 41 per cent of East Africa’s average real GDP growth in 2017. “However, industry’s importance is picking up as the sector contributed about 39 per cent of the region’s average real GDP growth. This is particularly so in Ethiopia, Rwanda, and Tanzania, where the sector contributed remarkably to GDP growth,” notes the report. However, the report further noted that the region’s inflation is expected to slow to single digits at 8.9 per cent in 2018 and 7.8 per cent in 2019. Anticipated monetary tightening in Ethiopia, Tanzania, and Uganda, and a neutral monetary policy in Kenya, as well as fairly stable exchange rates in all countries. The report also pointed out that Tanzania fiscal policy was expansionary in 2017, although weaker-than-expected, revenues led to a lower-than-budgeted fiscal deficit of about three per cent of GDP, compared with the planned deficit of 4.5 per cent. The pattern is similar in the region’s other countries, and this prudent fiscal policy stance is expected to prevail in 2018 and in 2019. It has been observed that among initiatives to boost growth in the country include the government plans to mobilise domestic resources by increasing the efficiency of public expenditure. Put more emphasis on reducing corruption, tax evasion and improve tax revenue administration. The report suggests that the country would need to mobilise international resources when it obtains a credit rating. On the other hand, Tanzania’s debt has been identified as sustainable in both the short and medium term, and the risk of debt distress remains low. Poverty reduction has been termed by the report as limited with nearly half the population in the East African region living below the international poverty line of 1.25 US dollar a day which is equivalent to less than 3000/-. To sustain regional GDP growth and move to a higher growth trajectory, the report has further suggested that countries need to strengthen their macroeconomic stability, through prudent m a c r o - economic policies that take into account individual countries’ circumstances. Other factors include vigorous efforts to improve domestic resource mobilisation and expand the fiscal space to support public investment. And, through structural transformations to broaden the growth base, create more jobs, and reduce the vulnerability to external shocks by diversifying the sources of government revenue and foreign exchange earnings. However, countries have been cautioned on relying only on public investment as major driver of growth. And, as they seek a viable alternative in private sector led growth, they need to expand their fiscal space to step up infrastructure investments while reducing public debt. “Improving tax administration can bring more taxpayers into the tax net, increasing the efficiency of tax collection and enforcing tax laws to increase compliance of those already in the tax net is yet another important measure that the countries should consider for great domestic resource mobilisation,” said the report. Furthermore, countries have been called upon to consider the trade disputes and mistrust leading to non-trade barriers and the enforcement of work permits.