ONE of the sins that the future commits is that a person doesn’t know what is in store. Of course there is a huge difference between what one wants the future to be like, and what it actually turns out to be. He may dream, for instance, that, once upon an evening, he spotted an abandoned car on an infrequently used road. He peeped through the window and noted that, currency notes of various denominations and nations, were scattered all around. He knelt before the car and thanked God for the offer, apologized to him for not having been a keen church service attendant and swore that, henceforth, he would change and preferably be the first to enter the holy house on the Holy day. Then, as he was sketching, in his middle-sized, slightly over half intelligence-starved head, plans of how he would bid ‘bye-bye to poverty and become a wealthy tycoon, he suddenly woke up. Guess where he was; you can’t. He was kneeling, not beside the car, but beside the bed and worse, a tiny river had formed on the floor. This meant that, somehow, he had actually been heading to the so-called bathroom ( to avoid using the word that begins with letter ‘T’) when the dream visited him. Then, excited by the prospects of becoming super-rich, he did, beside the bed, what he should have done in the facility that owns the first letter ‘T’. Thank God that the drama happened when he had become a circumstantial bachelor, his wife having travelled to the village. Chances are, his so-called better half would have become the “bitter half” by ordering him to explain why he was behaving like a baby. Additional chances are, a bedroom war, as opposed to a war between two neighbouring and friendly countries that had had become fed up of both the neighbourliness and friendship, would have erupted. On a grander scale, a petty trader may dream that he had become a member of parliament. How delightful it would be for Mr Chuuza Ndizi Bukoba, a young man who moves in circles in the residential settlements of a town other than Bukoba, hawking bananas rumoured to be the sweetest in the world, to find himself in the sweet situation of being an MP ! Even if he had not believed in the existence of God, he would make a loud confession for the sin, declaring that he had become a fantastic spiritually-oriented human being. He would declare that he would give free rides to people in need, such as expectant mothers stranded on the sidewalks of roads, anxious to travel to hospitals for delivery. He would also declare that, he would establish a special fund for helping the needy, such as those bearing a label that is 100 per cent meaningless. The label is street children, whose ‘meaningless-ness’ lies in the fact that streets are neither human beings nor animals that are capable of producing brand new ones, who should preferably resemble them, as reliable proof that they are the legitimate owners. The good thing about the past, as opposed to the future, is that it is a memory bank of sorts, in which are stored interesting events. Some of the events make a person as delighted as a hyena that has spotted a chunk of bony meat, to which it would do full-scale justice by depositing its pieces into its stomach. Going by how handsome-less and thankless hyenas are, I am 100 per cent doubtful whether, if a human being threw some appetizing pieces of beef at it, it would thank him. I am as certain about it as my British name is Wilson and my second name is Kaigarula. The latter additionally belongs to a human species that specializes in eating boiled bananas and use bananas to produce a wine whose sweetness could cause a bridegroom to cause a huge blunder. He would forget about his wedding, if he sipped three glasses half an hour before commencement of what was meant to be a very memorable event. When I was promoted from a village boy to a town lad, I took part in many tiny versions of the world war. The war was truly stupid. We would be playing games by the roadside. Then, whenever a car was driven past us, the declaration “Yangu; yangu; yangu” rang out. We did the same for a car that someone had just parked close to where we were playing. Some decades later; while on an evening stroll, I witnessed a drama featuring a smartly dressed man about my age pointing at a car and repeatedly shouting: “Yangu…yangu…yangu !” He explained that it had been stolen a few days earlier and had reported the theft to the police. My boyhood memories were roused, but it soon transpired that the mzee was somewhat mentally disoriented ! wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633