AFTER bravely seeing off Zambia giants Nkana FC and cruise into the group stage of CAF Ch ampions League, Mainland envoys Simba a re bracing for tough last 16 draw. Simba are likely to be pooled against continental giants in the group stage during a draw to be conducted in Cairo, Egypt on Friday. The two continental biggest club level competitions the Champions League group stage and the 2nd 1/16th round draw for the CAF Confederation Cup 2018/19 will be both held on Friday in Cairo after the completion of the first rounds of the two events. The Msimbazi Reds are the only East African side in the lucrative stage after winning 3-1 against Z ambia’s Nkana FC at National stadium, Dar es Salaam last Sunday to advance 4-3 on aggregate. In the draw, Simba will be represented by its Chairman, Sued Mkwabi and have been pooled in Pot 4 alongside Lobi Stars from Nigeria, Ismaily (Egypt), JS Saoura (Algeria) all without a point. Whereas Pot 1comprises the continental’s football giants TP Mazembe from DR Congo with 66 points, Al Ahly (Egypt) with 62, Morocco’s Wydad Casablanca and Tunisia’s Esperance de Tunis with 51 and 4 5 respectively. And, pot 2 has Mamelodi Sundowns from South Africa with 40, AS Vita Club (DR Congo) with 29 points, Horoya (Guinea) with 19 and Club African (Tunisia) with 12 points, whereby Pot 3 has ASEC Mimosas (Ivory Coast) with Point 8.5, South Africa’s Orlando Pirates with 8 , FC Constantine (Algeria) and Zimbabwe’s FC Platinum who are without a point. Simba fans are eagerly waiting to find out which clubs their favourite team will meet in the last 16 of the continental top tier club championship. And, there is no way Patrick Aussems side will avoid one of the giants such as TP Mazembe, Al Ahly, Wydad Casablanca or Esperance in group stage. Each group will comprise four teams, which will play home and away basis. The group stage is scheduled to kick off in January next year with all teams required to play six games each, three away and three at home and the group stage campaigns will end in March 2019. Two of the top sides in each group will qualify for the quarter finals of the Champions Leagues and the quarter and semifinals stage draw are planned to be held on March 23 in Cairo. Quarter final matches will be held from April 5 – 7, whereas semis matches will be played on either May 24 -25. Meanwhile, Simba leadership in collaboration with the club shareholder, Mohammed Dewji (MO) have given the team’s players 8 4m/- they promised them as motivation after eliminating Zambia’s Nkana FC from the Champions League last Sunday and cruise into the group stage. It is reported that players who had been in starting lineup against Nkana will bag 4m/- each, while those who came in as substitutes as well as those who were on substitute bench and those who were not on the game plan will earn 2m/- each. Team skipper, John Bocco has thanked the club leadership and Dewji for the move after receiving the money as promised and assured them that the players will work even harder to see Simba fly higher in the continental tournament. In another development, Simba will face Kigoma based side Mashujaa FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today, in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). The club’s Head of Information and Communications, Haji Manara said they respect their opponents but as it was during their Mainland Premier League game against KMC, they are going to feature a changed squad because the team has a wide choice of good players. However, Manara said that they are taking precaution ahead of the game to avoid what happened last season, where they were eliminated in the early rounds by Second Division League (SDL) side, Green Warriors.