NCCR-MAGEUZI Chairman, James Mbatia has urged fellow opposition leaders to be patriotic, including being close to President John Magufuli because he is the leader serving all Tanzanians. “Meeting the top leader and having discussions with him is not a sin and has nothing to do with opposition weaknesses in challenging the government,” Mr Mbatia said at a press conference after a closed-door meeting of six opposition parties in the country. His statement was in response to a question from a journalist, who asked him about some people’s comments that opposition leaders, who met President Magufuli at the State House, had betrayed the opposition and were hypocrites. Mr Mbatia said opposition leaders had a lot, including speaking on behalf of the people they led that needed President support as the Head of State and that just distancing from him did not help. “We can be close to the President and still remain strong opposition leaders.” “As a leader and also a representative of MPs from the opposition in Parliament, I visited the State House and discussed with President Magufuli. He is our President and there is nothing wrong with that,” he noted. Mr Mbatia said promoting dialogue was the best way to address issues and that most of the conflicts and disputes between the opposition and government/ ruling party were unsolved due to selfishness and lack of patriotism. He said seeking an opportunity to meet the President and talk about issues in the country was a good thing, instead of just complaining as an opposition leader. “It is possible to meet and share ideas with President Magufuli.” Other opposition leaders, who have met President Magufuli on different occasions at the State House, include Mr Edward Lowassa, Mr Fredrick Sumaye, Mr Seif Sharif Hamad, Prof Ibrahim Lipumba and Mr Freeman Mbowe, among others. Meanwhile, CUF Secretary- General, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad has said the future of his party relies on the court decision about the current internal conflict (between his camp and Prof Lipumba’s). “We are waiting for Court judgment, hopefully early next year. We will determine, which way we go as a political party after such decision,” Mr Hamad said after the meeting held at Hotel Verde on the outskirts of Stone Town. The meeting, which involved some veteran journalists, lawyers and politicians, was led by political leaders – Mr Hamad (CUF), Mr Mbatia (NCCR-Mageuzi), Mr Oscar Makaidi (NLD), Mr Salum Mwalimu (Chadema), Mr Hashim Rungwe (Chauma) and Mr Kabwe Zitto (ACT-Wazalendo) ended with a declaration to exert pressure on the government next year to demand for freedom of expression and end of what they termed as human rights violations.