AS we end the year, we ought to look behind and see what kinds of headlines related to violence against women featured in our dailies. This was after the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence Campaign which usually galvanize action to end violence against women and girls around the world. The international campaign originated from the first Women’s Global Leadership Institute coordinated by the Centre for Women’s Global Leadership in 1991. This year’s campaign against Gender-Based Violence was based on theme “We should all say no to sexual corruption at work places”— which reflected the core principle of the transformative 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. There is something interesting when one notices women meeting to speak as one voice and pressing for issues pertaining to their welfare, especially in social development. Women usually meet irrespective of their members’ political affiliations, place of origin and their status in community and this year they called for meetings where women shared stories related to sexual corruption. What brought them together was their gender and not anything else and the main question was - Why should we give in for sex so that we are offered employment? According to TGNP Mtandao Executive director, Lilian Liundi, women should stand firm when fighting for their rights, especially when men demand sex for employment. “Women should join efforts to end sexual corruption – a fundamental human rights violation that impacts all aspects of women’s life,” she says. According to Lilian, women countrywide should ensure that society promotes their rights to employment’ and they should be empowered so that they are treated equally in society. Such efforts may prompt the government, civil society actors and the international community to take urgent action to end sexual corruption at work places that has humiliated some women, with some losing their jobs. Lilian says that the government, civil society, international agencies and the private sector should also come together to fight the practice of sexual corruption at work places. In recent days there have been all-encompassing social media campaigns aimed at raising awareness about the need to reverse the fate of women who are too often maltreated by their male colleague at work. Lilian calls on the participants to join the other women’s rights activists and gender equality groups to strongly oppose such actions because sexual corruption is the violation of the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Act number 11 of 2007. The Act clearly states that a woman who is asked for sexual corruption in order to be offered employment should report to PCCB or other relevant offices to ensure that the culprit is arrested and arraigned. We should recall that Tanzania has already adopted a number of agreements aimed at guaranteeing gender equality, women empowerment and also protecting them from violence and other forms of violence. They include the National vision, Women Anti-Violence, the Beijing Declaration and the Action Plan, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the SADC’s Gender Equality Agreement and the Supplementary Prohibition on Abolition of Violence and discrimination against women and children (CRC) and the Five-Year National Development Plan. Despite the existence of a constitutional law on equality between women and men, says Lilian, this equality has not yet been achieved in ensuring that women are always legally entitled to their rights. Lilian stresses the importance of improving the employment environment and relations between employer and employees to eradicate gender violence at workplaces. There is also the need to maximize productivity in sustainable development, promote and protect women’s dignity by eliminating sexual harassment and increase confidence in women, economic development promotion and enhancement in the expansion of Tanzania’s manufacturing and eradicating sexual corruption, to give women decent job opportunities. Two years ago, Tanzania warned its public officials that using positions of power to extort sexual favours from women will no longer be tolerated after nearly nine in every 10 women in the public sector were estimated to have been sexually harassed. Guidelines that had been issued in 2016 by the independent Ethics Secretariat that oversees ethics in public leadership marked a crackdown on “sextortion” - when an official exercises power to sexually exploit someone for a service in his or her authority. The move came after hundreds of women in Tanzania’s public sector, complained of becoming increasingly susceptible to sextortion in the male-dominated system. Two years ago, Tanzania Media Women’s Association (TAMWA) reported that about up to 89 percent of women in the public sector have experienced some form of sexual harassment while looking for a job, promotion or seeking a service. Salome Kaganda, who was by then the Ethics Secretariat’s commissioner, said sextortion has become a major problem in the east African country of 50 million people due to an erosion of morals. “Sex corruption has caused a lot of pain to women who sometimes have no choice than to accept it,” she was quoted telling the Thomson Reuters Foundation. In 2015, women’s right groups launched a campaign to raise public awareness about the scale of sexual harassment in work places, schools and higher learning institutions and the move seems to be bearing some fruit. Two weeks ago, Dr Vincesia Shule of the University of Dar es Salaam recently tweeted to President John Magufuli, telling how female students are pressured from tutors to have sex for good grades in exams. “You have to be very bold to resist temptations, but it is not easy since it involves a lot of risks such as failing or sitting for supplementary examinations,” a student at the Hill says. People interviewed recently propose that there is a need to establish a guideline by which women could report sexual abuse to various public offices anonymously through letters, emails, what’s up, twitter and instagram. The guidelines should also highlight disciplinary measures that could be taken against any official found to abuse his or her power including written warnings, demotions, fines, or the sack. Lawyer Faudhia Yassin from the Women’s Legal Aid Centre once said that although no law recognized “sextortion”, such action involved two crimes - corruption and sexual abuse - both punishable with jail or fines of up to 5 million Tanzanian shillings. She cautioned that the anti-corruption law was too weak to handle cases of sextortion because it was difficult to prove the crime beyond reasonable doubt as it was carried out in secrecy. I think there is a need to amend the law and make it an exception to the general rule of evidence and allow proof not to be beyond reasonable doubt and this shall definitely give justice to victims.