SEA Cliff Golf course of Zanzibar has made significant changes in its two major competitions in their next year’s calendar. Elias Soka, the club’s Manager told the ‘Daily News’ from Zanzibar yesterday that they have been forced to make changes in some events so as to make them attractive and highly competitive. He named competitions that face changes as International Indian Ocean Golf Trophy and the CEO Golf Competition, which is a regional level event. Soka said that the second edition of the International Indian Ocean Golf Trophy that was due to tee off in January next year, has now been pushed to November. He said they had to make changes due to the availability of players as many will be away on holiday in January. The tournament that is normally staged in January 13 and 14; brings together golfers from different parts of the world. Soka said though the past events ended with a huge success, but they have learnt lately that the tournament could be much better if pushed forward and staged when most members are back from holidays. He said that they have this plan at their mind to make Indian Ocean Trophy as big as Ocean is and know November should suit it more than January. Golfers from South Africa, Kenya, Zambia, America, Italy, Tanzania Mainland and hosts Zanzibar took part in the first edition of the 36- hole event. Hosts Kylie Vatch posted aggregate 76 stable ford points to claim the overall winner’s title. He hit 43 points in the opening day and 33 points more in the closing day. Kenyan Gurbux Singh who returned 67 points took Division A title as Patrick Orurke had 62 points at the second place. Also hosts Mussa Foum who returned 69 points was the Division B winner while Italian Fabio Cunato who penned 64 claimed the runner up title. The 4th-edition of the tournament brings together Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) and Diplomat golfers around the globe successfully ended end of November. The event saw hosts Foum and Anita Siwale hitting 43 points each to win men’s and ladies categories titles respectively. “We see July will be a perfect time for the event to take place, hopefully everybody will be ready for them all,” said Soka.