THE government yesterday reaffirmed its commitment to buy all cashew nuts from farmers countrywide in this marketing season. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa issued the assurance, allaying fears among cashew nut growers, some of whom have not been reached by the government in the ongoing purchase exercise. He was speaking during his tour of Terra Cashew Industry at Kibaha Kwa Mathias in Coast Region on his way to Dodoma. The premier maintained that the government, through the Cereals and other Produce Board of Tanzania will buy all the cash crop, with no farmer remaining with unsold cashew nuts at home. He said the board is proceeding with evaluation process to establish if the cashews were produced within the country, adding that after the board is satisfied with the quality of cashew nuts and ascertaining farmers owning them, payments will be effected. Mr Majaliwa said the government decided to purchase all the cashew nuts after traders failed to offer reasonable prices to farmers. “The government aims at ensuring that farmers benefit from the produce and that is why President John Magufuli insisted on buying the cash crop after realising that farmers were at the risk of being exploited,” Mr Majaliwa noted. He said hitherto 181,000 tonnes of cashew nuts have been collected, urging producers to continue trusting the government. The premier commended Terra company management for its support to the government spearheaded industrialisation drive. Terra Industry’s Administrative Manager Peter Ngwale said the company has the processing capacity of 6,000 tonnes of cashew nuts per year and so far 3,000 tonnes have already been processed. He asked the government to assist in maintaining high quality of cashews. The government announced its decision to procure all cashews mid last month as a result of reluctance by the crop buyers to heed their agreement with President Magufuli on the minimum 3,000/- buying price of the cash crop from farmers as opposed to Cashewnut Board of Tanzania’s 1,500/- cap price. Dr Magufuli ordered Tanzania People’s Defence Forces to oversee the buying process by guarding all warehouses, transporting and processing the produce. He expressed disappointment over cashew dealers whom he accused of dragging feet in buying the crop at better prices even after meeting them at State House. “I have noticed that this is a coordinated game to sabotage farmers…we (Tanzania) are promoting the private sector but it’s now frustrating us,” he charged furiously. Detailing the state purchase of the cash crop at 3,300/-, he hinted that the Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank will spend part of the loan it secured from the African Development Bank to buy the cash crop.