HEALTH practitioners in the country have warned the public against inappropriate use of medical drugs, saying the practice may lead to disabilities. They said that patients should consult health experts or use drugs as prescribed by experts to avoid such disorders. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday during the commemoration of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities (IDPD), the Head of Pharmacy Department at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) Mr Deus Buma. said that people should shun using medicines basing on the ailment of another person without consulting a doctor because such behavior may cause health effects and disabilities. The IDPD was observed at the MNH through the provision of free health screening services to people with disabilities organised in collaboration with Peace Life for People with disability Foundation. “Not all the medical drugs are suitable to all people, and that’s why different drugs are sometimes prescribed for patients suffering from similar complications,” he said. He cited one of the medicines which was used in the past for treating and preventing nausea, noting that when administered to a pregnant woman she may end up giving birth to a baby without legs or arms. Mr Buma noted, however, that the same medicine was very effective in treating patients with blood cancer but restricted to expectant mothers. The expert said that if not used appropriately, some medicines may lead to cancer or reactions on the skin. He said that it was important for people to observe medical prescriptions and warned those relying on information posted on the internet to be careful because some of the reports had not been verified. In another development, Mr Buma said that the national hospital had continued to improve its service delivery through the support it received from the government. He said that the national health facility had improved access to medical drugs by more than 95 per cent after the government increased the budget for procuring medical drugs from 37bn/- to 269bn/- for the health sector. “The increment has brought impact even to our health facility because patients can now access drugs from our pharmacy and even access medicines which were available only in private outlets,” Mr Buma noted. Speaking on behalf of MNH, Executive Director Lawrence Museru, Head of Department of Internal Medicine Dr John Rwegasha said that his hospital had been a main stakeholder through provision of quality services to all Tanzanians, including people with disabilities. He said the hospital had been fulfilling its determination through employing experts who provide care services with focus on observing dignity and prevention of diseases and disabilities. Dr Rwegasha said that MNH had continued to expand its services by improving rehabilitation services and continued to employ occupational therapists and physiotherapists, speech and language therapists. Director of Compass Communication Maria Sarungi who was a guest of honour at the event, called upon the public to empower and observe dignity of people with disabilities. Themed “Empowering persons with disabilities and ensuring inclusiveness and equality”, focuses on the empowering persons with disabilities. Ms Sarungi said that persons with disabilities need to be supported so that they can become independent instead of giving them assistance which will not help to sustain their living,” Ms Sarungi said. “It is critical to ensure, in this regard, the full and equal participation of persons with disabilities in all spheres of society and create enabling environments by, for and with persons with disabilities,” she insisted.