YOUNG Africans started brightly their Azam Sports Confederation Cup (ASFC) campaign after thumping Tukuyu Stars 4 -0 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Amis Tambwe netted a hat-trick to steer his side to the next stage of the competition while Heritier Makambo contributed one goal for the Jangwani based giants. The game saw veteran player and former Simba SC midfielder Haruna Moshi who was signed by Y anga during the mini-transfer window making his debut but he lasted for only 29 minutes as he was replaced by Deus Kaseke after picking an injury. It was a continuation of Y anga’s unbeaten run in all competitions who fielded all their first-team players on the day against inexperienced Tukuyu Stars which is funded by Tulia Trust. Yanga goals started pouring down in the 13 th minute when Tukuyu Stars goalkeeper New Africa failed to catch the strong header from Feisal Salum hence the rebound found Tambwe well positioned inside the box who hit on the target instantly. Again, in the 3 5 th minute, Tambwe changed the score board by hitting the second goal to enable the current Mainland Premier League leaders go for breather with a two-goal advantage. As if this was not enough, in the 5 5 th minute, Tambwe used his experience well as he chopped in a nice ball into the empty net to register the third goal before he was substituted for Mrisho Ngasa in the 7 2 nd minute. Just ten minutes before the final whistle, Makambo sealed the deal by connecting well the assist from Paul Godfrey to enable his side win with the big margin. Elsewhere on Saturday, three Mainland premier League teams were eliminated from ASFC competition as they succumbed to defeats from minnow teams which usually give their all in these matches. It all started with Mwadui who suffered a 3-1 defeat from Pan Africa while Ndanda were axed out following a 3 -2 post-match penalty defeat to Transit Camp after the two teams played to scoreless draw at the end of normal period of play. Mbao FC bid farewell to the competition after they were hammered 4-2 by Dar City in a penalty shootouts following a 1-1 draw after ninety minutes of play. Mtibwa are the tournament’s defending champions after beating Singida United in a dramatic 3-2 victory. The victory earned Mtibwa a ticket to play CAF tournament after a 1 5 years of absence. The hero of the game was Ismailly Mhesa who scored the winning goal in the 88 th minute following a good counter attack move. Ismailly Mhesa was named man of the match because of his clinical display he showed throughout the game. He was available in both Mtibwa Sugar’s flanks and many team attacks were associated by him from the width. Mtibwa Sugar’s Hassan Dilunga was named as best player of the tournament after playing a key role in his team in this third edition of the FA Cup.