NICE weather, isn’t it? That’s almost standard ‘niceness’ for breaking the ice if you met a Mr Jones in London for the first time -- or every other subseq uent meetings. For want of something better to say, talk about the weather served many a timid fellow very well -- but only so well -- because we came to learn rather too late that even the most accomplished Londoner, plus their European neighbours, knew precious little about what informed their coffeetable small talk about the weather. Intriguingly, the Brits had taken -- and kept -- consistent tabs on ‘progressive warming trends’ since 1850, why spoil the party if the goodies from the Industrial Revolution rolled on? No pun intended here. When scientists started worrying about a ‘warming’ Planet Earth sometime in the mid-1980s, and emboldened the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), each of us was caught forks down. Scenario two When I first joined the media almost every visiting dignitary would arrive to, and receive, a tumultuous welcome. And, though a handy cliché beloved to lazy reporters, all of us seemed to enjoy repeat performance. Every now, every then. We are welcoming lot, after all folks, aren’t we? Now there’s new tumult in the air and we’re hard pressed reporting it: climate change had taken the shine out -- until last week. Across the Isles archipelagos of Zanzibar and Pemba, small farmers are in lament; saline waters from sea levels are eating away portions prime farmlands -- sometime whole livelihoods -- are reduced to waste. Isles Vice President Seif Ali Iddi is at work, seeking wise counsel at home and abroad. The good news is, he has a lot of arrows to the bow, as Aussies would say; the bad news is that it has come rather insidiously swift. But again, this fight is in good hands, if I may hazard. On a larger canvass, what’s happening across the channel isn’t uniq ue; half the world away in Vietnam whole families are besieged by flooding, ruining not just farms, but whole livelihoods. The point at hand is that we’ve work to do in Zanzibar. And, my sense of optimism is informed by what’s already happening on the ground; the government and all stakeholders have it in their means to lessen the impact of climate change and work on mitigation measures to save those precious lands. Someone in more dire straits once said: “To survive in this desert you need farming. And to farm, you need to understand irrigation, and that requires engineering. We used maths to feed ourselves.” The quote above would amount to lame anaesthesia only if given the gravity wrought in wake of increasing salisation of the Isles’ soils wasn’t so immediate, hence the need to marshal all resources on hand. Saline soils aren’t necessarily all dead pan: the Chinese have long tinkered with rice varieties that could well in saline soils. So, while we set out to provide immediate relief to affected farmers, it’s my humble belief that we should also explore the proverbial maths that could help us, first reclaim, then keep producing rice from those soils currently rendered ‘infertile.’ We have scientists, some of them world-class researchers, who have refused internationallyjuicy job offers to serve Tanzania. Somewhere someone isn’t very far to answer that call. And, that someone could be within Tanzania; if now a Rwandan, Sudanese or Eritrean. “It’s not too late to do the right thing,” says Rwandan President Paul Kagame, advising Europeans who are accusing Africans of messing up their immigration policies. Kagame was speaking -- just last-- week after meeting Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, who was on a one-day visit to our north- western neighbours. “If you look at the number of people leaving our continent for Europe, we have to ask ourselves how this can be managed properly. The how is here, we should have done this long ago, but it’s never too late to do the right thing,” Kagame is reported to have counselled his visitor. So what’s the connection? A lot of things, if you ask: F or one, there’s a meeting of minds between what Kagame is telling Europe and why Ambassador Seif Iddi’s immediate concerns in Zanzibar. F or many years, Europe ‘lied’ to Africa that the continent was a hopeless case, so our children believed them and went to answer that call. On my first visit to Australia, the vogue among the young generation was not to get married, or not getting children they finally marry. In 1979, in particular, the Austrian government was paying its youth special allowances to marry -- and get babies -- because there was a looming imbalance. I can only imagine that many the African youths Kagame is talking about may have landed in Austria. Chancellor Kurz could also be the best ally to help out with Africa’s piling environmental agenda -- because his own country has one of the cleanest rivers and an enviable record in turning what we would consider wastelands -- such as our Jangwani Valley -- into recreational centres. Back home Two weeks ago, we played host to a regional conference of engineers -- from Rwanda, South Africa Uganda -- in Arusha where our young men of toolkits were bullish about generating home-grown solutions to local civil engineering challenges. As in Zanzibar, where UNEP Deputy Executive Director Joyce Msuya was on hand to deliver reassuring messages to the Isles government, while in Arusha, some 200 civil engineers from the sub region compared notes with UNEP Country Representative Clara Makenya. That was a week well-pitched in an old adage: In Zanzibar, it was ‘sorrow shared is sorrow halved’ while in Arusha it was ‘happiness shared is happiness multiplied.’ In My Kind of Planet, we’re enjoined to a duty to hope.