NMB Bank Managing Director, Ineke Bussemaker (pictured) was over the weekend given a fare farewell as she leaves the bank which she has served for nearly 4 years. At the farewell which was conducted in Dar es Salaam and involved the bank’s stakeholders, friends and other MD/CEO’s of different sectors that she has been working with since she joined the NMB Bank including the Bank of Tanzania, where she pointed out that she was happy to leave behind a strong institution and the most profitable bank in Tanzania. Ms Bussemaker said, as she leaves the bank, she is happy to see today the bank with the widest branch network of 228 branches countrywide, over 800 ATM and over 6,000 NMB Wakala agents making its penetration to reach 100 percent of all the districts. “I urge the public to do business with us given our strong foundation that is spearheaded for the industrial development of the country and empowering women especially in this Fifth Phase government,” added Ms Bussemaker. She equally thanked the institution’s management and other staff members for her entire four years with them, which ensured that the bank become a force to reckon with in the financial matters in the country. “During my tenure I tried to come up with diverse ways to empower women right from the grassroots and into positions in the bank. I wish this is continued,” she said. Appealing to their competitors in the business, the outgoing CEO said during her tenure the bank managed to launch their first Master- Card in 2015 which is part of the implementation of their 2020 strategy which focuses on innovation and technology. “Staying focused banking institution in the country would penetrate into the new technologies and digital to reach all Tanzanians,” she added. She further said doing business in the country with their TWAWEZA initiative which was geared towards improving service delivery within the bank, NMB has made them serve their clients fast enough and accurately to their satisfaction. Presiding over Prof Margaret Ikongo, the bank’s board member hailed the tenure of Ms Bussemaker as outstanding with diverse monetary skills, which made them stay at the helm of the banking industry in the country. For the Citibank, Chief Exetuve Officer (CEO), Joseph Keraso, he appealed to NMB to observe gender balance in their workforce as a way of flashing back the efforts of Ms Bussemaker during her tenure. “She respected technology and yearned for more women being onboard and that made the bank spread wings countrywide and her work should be emulated,” he added. Currently NMB the commercial bank in Tanzania is the second-largest economy/institution in the East African Community, and boosts of being located in 100 percent of all the districts in the country. However, Ms Bussemaker leaves behind a strong banking institution with 228 branches countrywide, over 800 ATM and over 6,000 NMB Wakala Agents making its penetration to all the districts reach 100 percent. NMB is Tanzania’s leading retail bank, both in customer base and branch network. With over 3 Million customers, about 228 branches, 6 000 Wakala and over 800 ATMs, NMB is represented in 100 percent of the country’s districts. NMB serves individuals, the agri sector, micro and small enterprises as well as larger businesses. NMB has a strong financial record, based on years of strong and stable performance and is listed on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange. NMB’s largest shareholders are its strategic partners Rabobank with a 34.9 per cent share and the government with a 31.9 per cent share.