AZAM FC Head Coach Hans Van Pluijm said his side are still in the right direction despite recording a 2-2 draw with KMC on Monday at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The outcome helped Young Africans to continue their grip at the top of the pile with 41 points, one point ahead second placed Azam, who have played 16 games. Yanga have played 15 matches. It was the fourth draw for Azam this season, who are yet to lose a league match and remain one of the active contenders of the Mainland Premier League title. However, the hot issue is the 14-point gap created between Yanga and their traditional rivals Simba SC, who are third at the table with 27 points but they have three games in hand of which even if they could manage to win all of them, they will still be glued on the third spot of the log. In his post-match address, Pluijm said the fight is not yet over since they did not lose all three points from their away match against KMC. “It is true that we started the match badly but got back into it later on and we managed to contain them to the extent that we were able to score the equalising goal before the half time whistle,” Pluijm said. He added that the game was a two-way traffic in the second half as their opponents were also sharp and gave them a good match on the day. “They had a good defensive system which gave us a couple of problems to break but that is an area we want to work on ahead of other approaching league matches of the season,” he said. On his part, KMC Head Coach Ettiene Ndayiragije said he was impressed with the output of his players even though he conceded that a lot of work needs to be done within his squad. “The most important thing in football is to prevent your opponents from playing in your territory something we fulfilled to a big extent but there are some areas we should work on especially to improve our defence and attacking departments,” said the former Mbao FC coach. Similarly, Azam skipper Aggrey Morris said the draw was not convincing results for them since they were well prepared to get three points. “Anyway, this is football. We came to get good results but our opponents utilised well the mistakes we made through scoring two goals hence forcing us to come from behind to make it level. We will bounce back strongly,” he said. His counterpart for KMC Suleiman Ndikumana said they lost focus into the game which led their opponents to come from behind to level 2-2. “As you saw, we approached the match positively aiming to seize maximum three points but unluckily, we gave it away,” Ndikumana said.