AFTER massive rehabilitation and upgrading of Kilimanjaro International Airport, the terminal can now receive up to ten bigger planes at once, it has been stated. According to KADCO Technical Services Manager, Martin Kinyamagoha, the rehabilitation and upgrading of the terminal that is owned by the government through Kilimanjaro Airports Development Company (Kadco) involved the extension of its runways. To be specific, Mr Kinyamagoha said the terminal can handle up to ten Boeing 737 planes at once. He made the statement yesterday at an event to mark the international civil aviation day that is observed annually on December 7. Kadco marked the day by cleaning the environment and issued their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) at Boma Township, Hai district in Kilimanjaro region, where it issued the platform to explain the success they have had so far along with their challenges. He said the expansion has facilitated the increase of passengers using the airport from 614,167 and majority of them are coming direct from Asia, Europe, South and North America. The KIA senior official cited an example of 200 tourists from Israel who landed at KIA on Thursday. “They have never been to Tanzania before, it is their first time and they came with a direct flight. This is a major achievement to us,” he explained. Mr Kinyamagoha went on to explain that KADCO is supporting the efforts by President John Magufuli on improving air transport, that is why they decided to do major expansion at the KIA’s runway and passenger terminal in a fresh bid to improve government’s revenue collection from aviation industry. Speaking of the revenue, Mr Kinyamagoha said it has increased from 11b/- in 2011 to 23bn/- in 2017. The collection is set to hike due to the continued increase in number of arrivals and passenger planes using the airport situated in the northern part of the country. “Some of the planes that are using KIA airport are Kenya Airways, Turkish Airline, Qatar Airways and Fly Dubai. The planes have also increased their landing frequency,” he noted. At KIA, safety is guaranteed as KADCO has bought three new firefighting engines that have water tank capacity of 10,000 litres each. The vehicles were bought using domestic revenues. After the expansion, the airport will be able to handle 1.2 million passengers per year, up from 500,000 passengers who were handled in the past. The KADCO’s Marketing Manager, Ms Christine Mwakatobe said due to its outstanding performance, KIA has won various awards for successfully promoting the airport within and outside the country. “Some of the awards were competed by other popular airports in Africa, including the Julius Nyerere International Airport that is situated in Dar es Salaam,” she said.