WE usually hear people when they are not happy with their country’s political or economic situation asking: Where are they heading to? They rarely ask this question when there is what you can rightly describe as ‘organised chaos’ that destroys their culture and social fabrics. Here, I wish to ask where are we taking Taarab, the popular music of the East African coast and especially Zanzibar, which reminds its people of the past, analyse the present and forecasts the future. Taarab is not only about stories of love as many people think, but it deals with life and nature and reminds the society on the wisdom of the old sayings, riddles and vocabularies. Until few years back there was a feeling that no changes could erode their sense of purpose in their love for the Taarab melodies. But that is no more. For many years, the Taarab gave the people of Zanzibar and their colleagues in the neighbouring countries a platform to express hidden sentiments which at times they are either scared or hesitate to express them openly. At times they used erotic poetry which was covered with a veil. It required linguistic expertise to open it because if the same message was conveyed in a simple way it was nothing more than pornography. The old composers considered the usage of veiled speech as the right strategy for talking about morally and traditionally unacceptable topics to discuss them in public. They used word which if mentioned in public, even before his parents, no one would feel ashamed, but generally speaking. For example one may use fruits, such as an apple, mango or a jack fruit, a dhow, a lobster, a shark or a bus passenger seat to describe sexual organs or a prostitute. You may hear the singer talking about slaughtering a cow or grinding a coconut, but those are just expressions which mean something different. But nowadays when you listen to latest songs, especially those labeled as modern Taarab or ‘Rusha Roho’(Rap) and it happens you are with people you respect you may wish you were not around, The indecent and sexy messages conveyed are open. While those of the past were covered with a veil those of nowadays are stripped naked. Even a child of six years gets the obscene message packed in the song. In the past each and every Taarab song composed in Zanzibar used to be scrutinized by the Isles Censor Board and those from outside were black listed not to be used in public functions or through the state owned media. I am well aware that many people nowadays don’t like to hear anything to do with censorship. But if we eat the fish or the beans before consuming and have set up a Bureau of Standards to guarantee us of eating clean and safe food why not have system that washes the dirty linen. Unless we act and say no to the present trend of composing and singing in public songs whose message if filthy we will end up dumping our rich culture of Taarab music deep in the Indian Ocean. Let us reject songs which are not safe for public consumption. We are obliged to pass to the future generations the beauty of Taarab we have inherited from our ancestors.