I heard somebody say, happy world AIDS day! I thought about that for a moment. What sort of trauma could a person have gone through to think that it’s OK to say something like that? What does that even mean? Anyway, moving forward December is here and we are celebrating the closing of the year. Good times are sure to come. Unfortunately, so is the heat. And along with the heat and humidity, comes absolutely staggering body odour. It’s almost as if we were not prepared for the heat which we knew was coming but still. Yet again in addition to the heat producing staggering body odour, there is the fact that it jumbles the brain. I think this is what a lot of people are suffering from. I have seen people make rash decisions, and based off the fact that they were too hot, literally. The heat is slow-cooking our brains or something like that. Now I won’t talk politics because you know, it’s not a good thing at the moment but I will say there are two politicians who really should just get bail, no? Maybe the magistrate was suffering from the effects of the heat. Because really, why was bail denied? Perhaps like the thousands of the other Tanzanians the magistrate too was not prepared for the heat and along with perhaps staggering body odour was led to make this decision to deny bail? I’m just thinking out loud anyway. Enough of that. With December comes the holidays and that is something to be happy about. Time spent with family and whatnot. Good, good times. I’ve decided to start my celebrations early this year. Well as early as my wallet allows me. My wallet and the government as Independence Day celebrations have been cancelled this year. I’m not sure if it is still a public holiday in all sense of the word but regardless, I will not be at work on the 9th. A friend of mine, who heard me and my protesting of the issue told me that my protest was to be short-lived as December 9th falls on a Sunday this year. I guess that is that. I think when it comes down to it, it is what is in the heart that matters, right? Heat, bad body odour, bad judgement calls withstanding. Happy December. Let us close 2018 with a bang!