ONCE upon an outing in the Swiss business city, Geneva, I sipped wine in between delicious bites. When I ordered for more bites, the waiter enthusiastically asked: “So you like frogs, yea?” Yes, you guessed right. I wasn’t in the mood to eat any more. Frogs? In my mind’s eye, it was the picture of the frog that loomed larger than all the proteins it may have stood for; instead, it represented something alien to the culture of meat eating I was used to back home in Tanzania. Much later, I was in one west African country when my host served a dish which also included some frog’s legs; unknown to myself, the host had detected an unusual frown on my face. “Oh, you de no chop dis (Oh, so you like eating this?)”, he asked, rather quizzically, as if wondering how I could relish his choice welcome. To him, that could also be translated as a snub -- some cultural breakdown, if you like -- but I wasn’t about to start eating frogs just like that. In Tanzania today, it isn’t unusual to take a swipe at what others eat. A story of someone who stopped over for a snack at a joint in Iringa where he ordered z drink and a bite. When he called for more, the waitress was very apologetic. “Aah, samahani ... kaumbwa kenyewe tulikokachinja leo kalikuwa kadogo sana ... kamekwisha (Ooh, sorry ... the dog today was very small .. so we’ve run out of supply).” Your guess is as good as mine ... the guy wasn’t amused when he realised that he had just consumed dog meat, which is a delicacy among the Hehe tribesmen -- or once used to be! Among the Maasai, for instance, eating of game is rare, if not out of question ... until recently. During the hunting season, I first saw a Maasai moran slaughter a gnu within record time, eating some of its fat portions raw. But I was later told that was a rare occurrance. In the 1980s, I used to frequent the Carnivore to savour the best of game meat in suburban Nairobi, just off Wilson Airport . Then the joint shut down to meat eaters and became an events venue -- such as weddings -- and almost fell into disuse. Now there are plans to reintroduce selling of game in hotels and restaurants across Kenya and, hopefully, at the Carnivore too. To the country’s west, the International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology (Icipe), recently said researchers have since discovered a new species of crickets in Kenya which they say is edible. Icipe last said the cricket could easily be mass-produced for human consumption. The experts also said the insects could serve as an alternative protein ingredient in animal feeds. The species, which was collected and reared for experimental purposes at the centre’s campus, has been named Scapsipedusicipe. Tanga Mbi, who found the insect as part of his post-doctoral research, said the cricket is commonly found around buildings and fields and is characterised by a distinctive yellow band between the eyes. “This knowledge is important as it will enable the development of proper, more effective rearing techniques, and ultimately the effective incorporation of the species as a component in food and feed,” Mbi said. Nanna Roos, Associate Professor in the Department of Nutrition, said the research on the potential of farming of edible insects as an important contribution to nutritious food has been on for the past four years. “The discovery of Scapsipedusicipe is exciting and important, not just because it is a new species to Science, but because the species already has demonstrated great potential large-scale farming,” says Roos. Experts pushing for insects as an alternative food are faced with challenges of ‘Yuck factor’, a situation that has seen many keep off some of the edibles that could hold back the tide of hunger -- and unwitting starvation. According to current estimates, humans are now eating less than 20 per cent of what’s available on the universal menu. During a recent visit to Penang, Malaysia, it wasn’t rare to see carcasses of animals most of us in Tanzania would shun from eating. In some African countries, some of the delicacies reserved for valued visitors such as in-laws would attract the so-called ‘yuck factor’ among most Tanzanians. It’s said that dogs don’t wander about wherever there’s a Chinese around; any dog unlucky to cross paths with one is as good as dead, they say. Traditions apart, the human species also keeps starving from lack of knowledge; some of the food remains locked in the thick tropical forests in the Congo, for instance, where only the Pygmies have intimate knowledge access to. In urban centres, too, ignorance holds sway. Take the case of a lady from upcountry who sought to cook a whole coconut, not knowing it needed processing before it could serve as a condiment. To her, it couldn’t register that processed coconut could produce cooking oil similar to the groundnuts she was used to in her upcountry cuisine. Indeed, humanity is still discovering its diverse menu, from plants to animals and insects; and from the depths of oceans and hill tops to the deserts, there are edibles aplenty -- from frogs to donkeys and horses, someone somewhere is enjoying a hearty meal. As the joke goes among the Brits against their French cousins, “... they eat horses, don’t they?” But they, too, eat snails, don’t they? The list of what ‘others’ eat could go on ad initum, as long as there’s cultural diversity; the richer the human diversity the richer the human menu -- most of which is still under discovery. As the world population grows so will the challenges of feeding it, a challenge we’re currently trying to meet with new discoveries and advances in biotechnology. Again, here we’re facing the challenges brought about by fear of the unknown, in particular with regard to GM (genetically modified) foods. But more of this for another day, lest we disagree. I once jokingly advised Hon Kangi Lugola to make a good meal out of the crocodiles he said were harassing his people; but jokes apart, those crocs could bring in roaring business as an export opportunity -- because I used to eat crocodile at Nairobi’s Carnivore. This joint which was shut down for sometime has since been reopened for serious business -- of meat eating and, hopefully, there will be crocodile servings on offer.