THE Zanzibar State Trade Corporation (Z STC) has been advised to research on modern agricultural practices and value addition to earn more from cloves and other spices grown in the country. Speaking at the gathering of some buyers of cloves, farmers and other stakeholders to mark Z STC’s 50th anniversary, President Ali Mohamed Shein said this would help boost earnings from crops and export volumes. At the colourful event held at Hotel Verde, Dr Shein urged residents to embrace the crop, saying cloves were a high-value crop that could sustainably help improve household incomes and the country’s GDP. “Y ou have done a good job in promoting cloves. Y ou deserve praise and all staff should be given bonus for their commitment to cloves production. Let us aim higher in cloves,” he told Z STC. Dr Shein said farmers were discouraged and many opted to stop growing cloves. However, after fresh strategies in 2011, which included price increase (from 3,500/- to 14,000/- per kilogramme), control of illegal sales of cloves, improved cloves nursery and free distribution of seedlings to farmers, Zanzibar had witnessed admirable results. “We have been selling a lot of cloves abroad, but we need not rely heavily on exports. We must think of value addition agriculture. There are many products from cloves, which can be made. ZSTC must embark on researches both in value addition and new markets abroad.” Minister for Trade and Industries Amina Salum Ali said Z STC was targeting to increase cloves export volumes by encouraging/motivating farmers to grow more cloves and improve the quality of cloves brought to Z anzibar about 200 years ago from Indonesia. “We look forward to another 50 years of success in cloves business,” Ms Ali said as the Z STC Managing Director Dr Said Seif Mzee praised his co-workers for admirable performance in the past half century, vowing to double production and sales. Retired leaders of Zanzibar, including former presidents and other people, who played a big role in promoting cloves, were given different awards in recognition of their support on cloves development.