SMALL scale processors of cashew nuts in the southern regions of Lindi and Mtwara have hailed the government’s decision to process the crop that was harvested this year locally, saying that the Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO) was now assured of raw materials throughout the season. The remarks were made here over the weekend by Small and Medium Entrepreneurs (SMEs) during a tour of the Deputy Minister for Industry, Trade and Investment, Eng Stella Manyanya, who witnessed the delivery of raw cashews in one of the processing factories under the ownership of entrepreneurs who entered a contract with the government. They said despite having in place various small industries under SIDO as well as various small machines, the availability of raw materials remained a challenge, as SIDO was unable to compete with more powerful buyers of the crop. SIDO Director General Prof Sylvester Mpanduji said in Mtwara alone, SIDO planned to hire over 100 small scale women entrepreneurs in cashew processing. He pointed out that cashew processing was due to start early this week and machines had been tested and were operating well. He added that in previous seasons, many factories were not able to run due to inadequate funds for buying the cash crop. Prof Mpanduji pointed out that small scale industries now had an opportunity to operate and therefore the government would have an opportunity to get revenue. He added that SIDO factories would start with the processing of nine tonnes. The Deputy Minister noted that already three groups had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU ) with the government to process cashews, stressing that the government’s objective was to create employment opportunities for entrepreneurs. She pointed out that SIDO would eventually create jobs for over 500 people in Mtwara Region, calling on women to grab such opportunities for economic empowerment. Eng Manyanya noted that 15 factories owned by private companies had shown interest to enter into a contract with the government in processing cashews, pointing out that currently, government officials were assessing those factories, after which they would be brought on board if they were deemed appropriate. SIDO has been very active in Mtwara and Lindi to ensure that President John Magufuli’s directive was implemented smoothly and on time.