REGIONAL Safari guides have vowed to keep Arusha clean and green in a bid to cement its place as the country’s tourism hub. Comprising of drivers and tour experts, the guides observed that Tanzania’s quest of boosting tourist arrivals to two million by 2020 will only be achieved if the country is kept clean and tidy throughout. The guides who were on a cleanup exercise of the Arusha-Dodoma highway at Miserani area over the weekend, noted that there was a thin line between tourism and environment, cautioning that an untidy environment could scare away tourists and other potential investors. “Tourism is part of the environment; the two are actually interdependent, we therefore need to keep our country tidy at all times,” said Mr Engelbert Aloyce, the Vice Chairperson of Arusha Safari guides. Mr Aloyce challenged fellow guides to improvise special souvenir bottles for their clients during safari expeditions, instead of issuing plastic bottles which he said were detrimental to the environment. “Such discarded plastic water bottles are now becoming a big litter problem not only in national parks but also on major highways that are more often than not used by tourists visiting Tanzania,” he explained. According to Mr Aloyce, as guides, they normally find it difficult to explain to their clients who inquire about the heap of garbage they see on major roads, urging owners of Public Service Vehicles (PSVs) to refrain from littering. On his part, Miserani Ward Councillor, Lotti Naparani, decried the lack of a dumpsite in the area, which compels residents to litter the environment. According to Mr Naparani, Miserani- Duka Bovu area was known for a livestock auction and a meat market; a situation he said put the health of Miserani residents at risk. “At least 1,000 cows get slaughtered here every day, you can therefore imagine the trash and the strange smells that hover around this place,” he explained. He called on the Monduli District Council to immediately establish a dumpsite in the area to address the dire situation. The cleanup exercise by the guides culminated with a blood donation exercise at the Mount Meru Regional Hospital.