ABOUT 449 girls who are victims of early pregnancy and marriage in Nkasi District, Rukwa Region have benefitted from entrepreneurship training between February 2017 and today funded by Plan International Tanzania. The aim of such training courses is to equip them with skills which can help them improve their lives as well as increasing their income. Equally, even the illiterate were among the beneficiaries of the entrepreneurship training funded Plan International Tanzania. The NGO is carrying out project that fight against early pregnancy and marriage currently at the wards of Nkandasi, Mtenga nad Mkwamba in Nkasi District which is funded by development partner NORAD from Norway . The training coordinator from Nkasi Fold Development College (FDC) Mr Fredrick Mwakikoti told the ‘Daily News’ in an exclusive interview that the beneficiaries are 120 girls from Nkandasi Ward, Mtenga 158 and Mkwamba 171. “Some of them were impregnated at a tender age of 14 years old while they were in Standard Four and others dropped from school while they were in Standard Six and, seven after being impregnated and some were victims of early marriages,” he said. According to Mr Mwakikoti such training took three months in classes and three moths in field work and were carried out into three phases from February 20 , 2017 to February 15, 2018. This month 171 girls were awarded with certificates of participation at a colorful celebration held at Swaila Secondary School at Mkwamba ward in the district. The Plan International Tanzania, Nkasi District Project Coordinator, Nestory Frank revealed that the organisation targets at reaching girls who are victims in all remaining 25 wards in the district . The Acting Nkasi District Council Executive Director (DED) Mr Missana Kwangula hailed the project saying the programme will go along towards enabling girls overcome challenges of bringing development to them. Acting DED challenged them to form youth groups so that they can benefit from the fund set aside in the district for empowering youth people in the precinct. “The fund in the form of loan will eventually help youth people overcome many challenges they are facing,” added Mr Kwangula. He however went on to challenge parents and guardians to cooperate with the project and support their daughters to embark on the entrepreneurial safari. Across–section of the beneficiaries interviewed by this paper expressed their joy after completing the six–months training saying they hoped it would help them improve their living standards through earning and additional income.