THE Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Joachim Wangabo has challenged small traders across the country to be honest and expose any tax evaders to relevant authorities for necessary actions. Equally, the RC appealed to small scale entrepreneurs across the country to firmly adhere to State instructions while selling their merchandises at their respective prepared centers. Mr Wangabo made such appeal over the week end here in the municipality while presenting 25,000 special identity cards to district commissioners from Nkasi, Kalambo and Sumbawanga as each four councils will get 6,250. Rukwa Region has four councils including Nkasi District Council, Kalambo, Sumbawanga and Sumbawanga municipal council. The RC also directed the DCs to ensure that the special IDs are handed out to small scale entrepreneurs whose business capital does not exceed 4m/- annually. Presenting special IDs Wangabo said that holders of the special IDs would finally be registered by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) officials at their operational centers warning big traders to refrain from using IDs in a bid to evade taxes insisting they will be dealt squarely. “I’m cautioning big traders who are intending to evade taxes by using small traders and hawkers to sell their merchandises the relevant authorities will never hesitate to take them into task. I appeal to small scale traders to report them as well as corrupt leaders who will use this chance to earn money from citizens..… be honest and expose tax evaders to relevant authorities for necessary actions because such behavior is illegal and unacceptable and denies the country much needed revenues,” he added. Kalambo and Sumbawanga District Commissioners, Ms Julieth Binyura and Dr Halfany Haule allayed fears to all petty traders that all who have qualified will be given the IDs saying nobody will harass them while conducting business at their respective centers. A cross section of petty traders from Sumbawanga and small towns of Namanyere (Nkasi) and Matai (Kalambo) including ‘machinga’s’ who spoke to the ‘Daily News’ hailed the President Magufuli for his courageous and brave spirit of introducing special IDs for them . John Joseph fondly called “Kamanyola” a petty trader highly praised Dr Magufuli saying, “Sadly, for years we small traders and hawkers have been facing myriads of challenges including harassments while conducting our business We are optimistic, the new IDs will easily facilitate us in carrying out our trade in peaceful and friendly manner” he said. Similar sentiment was echoed by Mariam Juma who runs a kioski at small town of Namanyere in Nkasi District. The new IDs will help us increasing our capital base,” she added. Recently, Dr Magufuli launched special IDs and handed out 670,000 IDs to small scale traders across the country with total annual revenue not exceeding 4m/-annually, insisting IDs holders would formally be recognized by TRA official at their respective centers. The petty traders holding new IDs will be required to put on show their IDs to enable them conducting business freely as they will be recognized by TRA officials.