A TANZANIAN activist for the education rights for girls, Ms Rebeca Gyumi, has received a UN Human Rights Prize Award for 2018, a statement from the United Nations( UN) Information Centre in Dar es Salaam, stated yesterday. Speaking during the award ceremony in New York, UN Secretary- General Antonio Guterres said Ms Gyumi was honoured with the award alongside two other individuals and one organisation. “I want to pay tribute to Rebeca Gyumi from Tanzania, an activist for education rights for girls, the late human rights lawyer, Asma Jahangir, from Pakistan, Ms Joênia Batista de Carvalho, Brazil’s first indigenous woman lawyer and Front Line Defenders from Ireland, working to protect human rights defenders at risk,” the UN Secretary General stated. He explained that as the world celebrates the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it was important to recognize the human rights defenders working to uphold the Declaration and make human rights a reality for all. “Today we recognize the outstanding contributions of three individuals and one organisation chosen as the recipients of the 2018 United Nations Human Rights Prize given every five years since 1968,” Mr Guterres said. He said the work of the three individuals and that of other human rights defenders around the world, was essential for the collective efforts to sustain peace and ensure inclusive sustainable development and respect for human rights for all. “We regularly hear of abuses against human rights defenders, murder, disappearances, torture, arbitrary imprisonment and other attempts to silence them. Yet these courageous individuals and groups remain committed to shining a light on the dark corners of the globe, wherever human rights violations occur,” he said. He said human rights defenders give voice to the voiceless and shield the powerless against injustice. They also support the rule of law or work peacefully to change laws so women and girls, indigenous communities, minorities and other marginalised groups may exercise their rights. “Human rights defenders work to empower people through education. And they help to protect other human rights defenders from harassment, intimidation or arrest. We salute them all,” he pointed out. The awardees shared the honorary prize with other notable defenders who have received it during the past 50 years. They include Eleanor Roosevelt, Martin Luther King, Nelson Mandela, Jimmy Carter, Malala Yusafzai and this year’s Nobel Peace Prize winners, Denis Mukwege and Nadia Murad, as well as organisations such as Amnesty International and the International Committee of the Red Cross.