THE prosecution is expected to call 15 witnesses in the trial of ACT WAZALENDO National Leader and legislator for Kigoma Urban, Zitto Kabwe, who is accused of uttering seditious statements linking the police force with killings of about 100 people in Kigoma region. Such development was revealed at the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday during a preliminary hearing of the trial before Principal Resident Magistrate, Huruma Shaidi. During the session, the prosecution led by State Attorney Wankyo Simon disclosed more particulars showing how Zitto committed the offences. It said that the testimony of the witnesses will be supported by two documentaries and an electronic exhibit. Reading memorandum of facts of the case, the trial attorney alleged that on the 28th day of October, 2018, the accused hold a press conference at the ACT-WAZALENDO Head Office located at Kijitonyama within Kinondoni District in Dar es Salaam Region. He went on to reveal that during the press conference, the accused uttered words that were seditious which caused public tension and could cause disputed harmony amongst the citizens. The State Attorney further alleged during the press conference that the accused stated that “ Watu ambao walikuwa ni majeruhi katika tukio la mapambano baina ya wananchi na polisi wakiwa wamekwenda hospitali kupata matibabu katika kituo cha afya Nguruka, Polisi wakapata taarifa kuwa kuna watu wanne wamekwenda hospitali kituo cha afya Nguruka kupata matibabu wakawafuata kule wakawauwa” Mr Simon noted that the accused further stated that “Lakini tumefuatilia kwa kina jambo hili, taarifa ambazo zinaonesha wananchi wengi sana wameuawa, na jeshi la Polisi, pamoja na kwamba Afande Sirro amekwenda kule, halijatoa taarifa yoyote kuhusu wananchi hawa kama walivamia eneo la Ranchi, kuna taratibu za kisheria za kuchukua na siyo kuwaua, wananchi wengi sana wamekufa.” According to the prosecutor, the accused went on to instigate the people by stating that “Tumekuwa tukifuatilia kwa kina yanayojiri yote huko Uvinza tunasikitika kusema kuwa taarifa tunazozipata kutoka Uvinza zinaogofya mno, kwani tunaambiwa kuwa wananchi zaidi ya 100 wa kabila la Wanyantuzu wamepoteza maisha kwa kupigwa risasi na polisi, wengine wakisemwa kuuawa hata wakiwa kwenye matibabu hospitalini baada ya kujeruhiwa kwenye purukushani na jeshi la polisi.” It was claimed in court that the words not only instituted hatred, but rather created a sense of hatred towards the lawful authorities as it created extreme discussions among the public in groups, social media and the press in general. It claimed that the words uttered made the people to think that the government does not care about the well-being of its citizens. Magistrate Shaidi adjourned the case to January 14 and 29 when the matter will come for mention and hearing.