... Attributed to the government’s austerity measures and anti-corruption drive THE current liquidity problems are temporary effects of government austerity measures and crackdown on corruption and embezzlement of public funds, the Central Bank governor, Prof Florens Luoga, has said .He told business reporters in Dodoma over the weekend that the Central Bank was closely following up the situation and was confident it would improve with time with increased production from the expanding manufacturing sector and agriculture. Prof Luoga gave the clarification in the wake of the ongoing discussion that the country is passing through difficult economic situation. “This are transitory effects from adjustments done by the government in the economy and management of public funds,” he said in his closing remarks of a training seminar organised by the Central Bank for business journalists in the capital city. He said there were inflows of money in the economy, mostly from illegal channels and wasteful use of government funds, which did not correspond with increased production of goods and services. He said the Central Bank would continue to conduct seminar training for business journalists to build their capacity so that they can write and analyse better economic and financial reports to educate the public on what matters to them. He said it was important to build capacity for business journalists so that they could be able to understand and analyse economic and financial reports even when they were used by some people with ill intentions. “Sometimes these financial and economic reports may be used as a weapon by those who don’t like you, or those you have differed with in some matters. When you differ with some people, they use the reports as a weapon,” he said. “They may pick some data and use it out of context and say for instance, that the economy is not growing or fiscal and monetary policies are not working which may scare foreign and even domestic investors and make your people lose confidence and trust to the government,” he said. He called for professionalism and patriotism among business journalists in covering economic and financial matters as they have far- reaching implications on the national interests. He said it was important for business journalists to maintain ethics and standards and to promote patriotism in covering financial and economic news and analysis as they are crucial for the development of the nation. “We need journalists with capacity to analyse and tell the public about financial and economic reports so that these reports are not used to undermine credibility of the government,” he said. He said financial and economic reports were crucial in promoting the image of the nation to global investors which is crucial in attracting investments necessary to boost economic growth and development. The economic and financial news is necessary for exuding confidence among domestic investors and restore market stability, he said, cautioning however that they could as well be used with ill intentions to bring about instability in the market. “When not used properly, financial and economic reports may have very serious harm to the nation,” he said.