TANZANIAN envoys in the continental level competitions, Simba and Mtibwa Sugar are engaged in tough matches away missions in Zambia and Uganda this weekend with all of us firmly backing them. Simba are playing against Nkana in Kitwe, Zambia while Mtibwa Sugar are facing Kampala City Council Authority (KCCA) at Lugogo Stadium in Kampala Uganda. Both the CAF Champions League which involves Simba and CAF Confederation Cup, whose flag bearers are Mtibwa Sugar, are vital competitions in providing our players a platform to show their quality, market their skills and their teams. Gone is the era when football operated in an amateurish system, hence our player should know that while seeking to win their tough matches, they are also marketing their values as the modern era football is business oriented. We urge our teams and players to take their matches seriously as their opponents are also hunting for the same treasure. For Simba and Mtibwa, who missed the continental level championships for many years, playing in the CAF level championship is not only commendable, but a giant step that heightens the status of players, teams and the country’s level of football. The CAF Champions League is tough and highly competitive and the matches’ results will be an indication of where we stand in terms of continental standards, and when we fail, we know we should raise the quality of our local game. When we succeed, as was the case with Simba in 1994 when they reached the final of Cup Winners Cup only to lose to Stella Abidjan and when they reached the semi-finals Club Championship in 1974, we know that our standards are also up there with the very best on the continent. And, more than just looking for the barometer to gauge where we stand, both the Champions League and the Confederations Cup also provide a stage where the country’s flag can be flown very high if our representatives do very well. What we can only urge Simba and Mtibwa Sugar is to adequately drill their players physically and psychologically, while Tanzanians promise to rally behind them in their both home and away matches.