POLICE have been commended for ensuring peace and security during Christmas celebrations across the country and asked to sustain the trend throughout the coming New Year’s celebrations. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’, some ‘wananchi’ in various regions said they celebrated Christmas peacefully and that police vehicles were patrolling various areas as part of the peace and order maintenance mission. “I am very thankful to the Police Force, we attended holy mass at night and returned home safely,” said Ms Adelina Fungo, a resident of Kisasa in Dodoma. She said that up to yesterday, there had not been any reports on crimes or accidents in her area, unlike in the past when nasty incidents such as fighting and thefts were common,” she said. Mr Denis Alphonce, a resident of Mji Mpya, said the police maintained peace in all parts of the city and appealed to ensure that the same would be applied to New Year celebrations. Zainab Jaffar, a resident of Mbagala, said police conducted helicopter patrols in all parts of the city. “ I was happy to see people celebrating peacefully, we saw police officers patrolling Coco Beach and other crowded areas and also witnessed a police helicopter over our heads; it was a Christmas of its own, thanks to the Police Force,” she remarked. In Mara Region, residents of Tarime and Rorya districts celebrated Christmas holiday peacefully, the police force said on Wednesday. “Christmas was peaceful everywhere in Tarime and Rorya .There was not a single bad incident, the Tarime Rorya Regional Police Commander, Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police, Henry Mwaibambe told the ‘Daily News’ in a brief telephone interview. He said police officers were deployed in all sensitive locations to ensure that there was no room for anybody to break the law before and during Christmas. The RPC urged the residents of Rorya and Tarime to continue maintaining peace even during the coming New Year holiday, pointing out that security personnel were on high alert to deal with any criminal acts or trouble makers. Tarime and Rorya used to experience frequent incidents of cattle rustling and clan clashes in the past, a trend that prompted the government to establish a special regional police zone in the area. Kinondoni Regional Police Commander, Muliro Jumanne, said police officers made regular patrols in the city, to ensure all residents in Dar es Salaam celebrate Christmas peacefully. Kagera regional Police Commander, Revocatus Malimi said no road accidents were recorded. However, he said two people were killed in separate incidents linked to jealousy and theft allegations; otherwise in various parts of the region, Christmas was celebrated peacefully.