YOUNG Africans Assistant Coach Noel Mwandila said he was happy to accomplish the team’s objective of cruising into the next round of Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). Yanga started their ASFC campaign on top gear after defeating Tukuyu Stars 4-0 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Monday to continue their unbeaten record in all competitions this season. Veteran striker Ammis Tambwe was on target three times scoring two goals in the first half and netting the other early in the second half to record his first hat-trick in the unfolding ASFC competition. Also on the score sheet for the Jangwani street based outfit was Heritier Makambo, whose goal in the 80th minute sealed the deal for the hosting team. The game saw Yanga deploying all its arsenal on the battlefield knowing in advance that a defeat means nothing less but elimination from the prestige contest whose winner represent the country in CAF Confederation Cup. Haruna Moshi made his debut match in Yanga colours on the day but lasted on the pitch for 29 minutes only as he was substituted after picking an injury. He was replaced by Deus Kaseke. At a post-match press briefing, Mwandila who took command of the team in absence of Head Coach Mwinyi Z ahera, who is reportedly in Paris, France said their objective was to make it into the second stage of the competition. “I am happy that we have accomplished our priority of progressing into this important competition and we are now looking forward for our next opponent,” Mwandila said. He added that his team was on the course to win with many goals as they lost countless scoring chances in both halves of the game. “Our opponents also had chances to score but could not do that which in the end was our advantage,” he said. On his side, Tukuyu Stars coach Alex Lusekelo said they were tactically overwhelmed by Yanga a situation he said highly contributed to their early exit in the competition. “Obviously, Yanga is a big club since they have competed in many high profile competitions than we have. We are just emerging and preparing ourselves to compete in the Second Division League (SDL),” he said. He continued: “We have learnt many positive things out of this game from Yanga players which we will use to make ourselves stronger.” Adding, the coach said it was the first time for his boys to play at the National Stadium as such, they have gained experience such that when they will play at the same venue next time, definitely, their performance would not be the same.