IT is becoming debatable that to acquire education and be academically armed with right papers (may be of the right skills) is one thing, and landing in a posh job with the credentials required by employers in another thing altogether. The debate has made many employees as well as employers wonder of what should be the immediate solution. Whether to jump into the pool of ‘already manufactured brains’ from institutions churning them out to run their industries/ offices, or resort to another option of training them on their own, becomes the next headache. However, the problem of unemployment is now regarded as a global crisis where a number of people graduating from universities or any other institution outnumbers the available job opportunities in the market. In the analysis, it has been revealed that some people fail to secure their right jobs after their studies, not because they graduate with poor grades, but rather they fail to have that ‘convincing power and skills’, which most employers in the market are looking for. It is true that an employer has no time to start afresh teaching (training) his/her newly recruited employee about basic things demanded in his/her industry/office, with an assumption that the new employee is already skilled enough to be onboard with less costs (simply an employer wants his/her job done). In the course, some employers do offer capacity building lessons to their employees as one way of facilitating production, but usually this happens after an employee has stayed at the workplace with the employer for a certain period of time. In a nutshell, here is where Niajiri Platform comes in force to rescue a big number of people graduating from varies institutions ready to meet employers despite being trained. This is a platform which uses modern technology to give extra skills to graduates for them to fit perfectly well in the job market search, and it also serves as a unifying spot between employers and employees. Established last year in June, Niajiri Platform’s founder, Lillian Madeje, said the main motive behind the inauguration of the body is to impart addition skills to the graduands, which can help majority of them as job seekers, something she hints they may have missed during their studying period. “The job market out there is very competitive and demanding, meaning that what learners get from Higher Learning Institutions alone cannot guarantee them to get quality jobs, hence upon seeing that, I decided to come up with this initiative, and we are now on the ground sharpening further their skills,” added Ms Madeje, during a certificate handing over ceremony to 22 students, who successfully completed a six-week training programme with Niajiri Platform held in Dar es Salaam recently. She added: “The other problem I noted which compelled me to start this platform was failure of some of the graduates to write sellable Curriculum V itae (CV), which is another critical thing when it comes to seeking employment. You can score straight A’s at the end of your studies, but still be unable to write a proper CV , which is appealing to the employers.” She according to the East Africa Inter University Council 2014 report, about 61 per cent of Tanzanian graduates do not have ready job market skills, hence after seeing this, she saw it necessary to establish the Niajiri Platform to ‘deal with big numbers’ of scholars, to empower them with job fighting skills and become ‘employable’ after the training. “About 900,000 youths in Tanzania enter the job market annually, where only 50,000 are able to secure jobs, but besides this many of them lack chances to land in right posh jobs, because they simply missing the opportunities. This is exactly what we are struggling to address as fast as possible,” pointed out Ms Madeje. “It’s true that we face unemployment crisis, which is a universal problem, but it is better to be well equipped so that when they (graduates) find jobs,” she added. Expounding further, the Niajiri founder said her platform does not only help employment seekers, but also benefits employers in a way, who are looking for already prepared brains to spice up with their different responsibilities. “We usually bring in professionals from different sectors who come and interact with our learners and coaching them on what the world of employment is currently about… in accordance with the dynamic changes in science and technology. This is what makes us unique from others, who provide similar services,” Madeje noted. She additionally stated that Niajiri Platform works closely with three companies noted as Coca Cola, The Foundation for Civil Society and Sustainability Practice, where they secure them employees by first training them. Asked what qualifications they look for from the people before joining the platform, Ms Madeje said they usually target three groups of people, which include students almost finishing their university studies, and those who have graduated as well as people who are already employed, but still require to upgrade further their skills. Moreover, Ms Madeje said the number of viewers who visit Niajiri Platform website per month is more than 1,500 with most of them, according to her, have keen interest to know how the platform works and available services. “Currently we have more than 34 online courses ready to be fed to those who want to add some value to their profession, and as I have already explained, our doors are always opened to anybody who wants to be onboard,” she said. She named top enrolled courses which are on demand at her platform as Sales, Strategic Management, Effective Communication and Customer Service Training. “At the moment, we do not have students from outside Tanzania since we want first of all to solve problems in our country, before flying high to other countries. Plans are there to cover the entire continent one day, but we need to take every step available seriously to reach at the top,” she remarked. Furthermore, Ms Madeje said they have plans to begin accommodating even those people with technical education through Niajiri Platform as one way to reach big audience. She then urged youths to use the social media platforms wisely by accessing learning materials other than wasting time doing unprofitable things. For his part, a beneficiary of the Niajiri Platform Justin Chalya who holds Bachelor of Social Work from the U niversity of Dar es Salaam said higher learning institutions do not teach students skills on how to survive on the job market, hence it is responsibility of the graduates to tune themselves up. “The skills you get is for the course you are taking and not necessarily what you ought to do, while on the job market from where the competition is tough,” Chalya said. He continued: “Honestly, I used to skip a very important detail on writing a CV but after joining this platform, I have learnt that including personal statement or personal profile which is written in one paragraph.”