FEMALE Genital Mutilation (F GM) practices among the Pastoralist communities in Longido District are fueling spread of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and consequently Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). That was said recently here by Longido District AIDS Coordinator, Dr Matrona Boniface at a public gathering organised by the World Vision Tanzania (WVT), adding that the main spread of the deadly virus amongst them is sharing circumcision cutting blades. She pointed out that it was sad to see babies and young girls being subjected to such situations, despite the government’s efforts to have the practice stopped, but instead carried out clandestinely. “FGM has been banned by the government and campaigns are carried out countrywide in collaboration with nongovernmental organisations, as well as human rights activists, but still persist in the pastoralist communities. “The system has since then changed from subjecting adolescents to F GM and now it is for babies. We live in Maasai community where the malpractice is still ongoing,” she added. Dr Boniface hinted that supposing it was being done professionally by experts, it would be another thing, however, its medical research findings outlaws it. “We remain in a great danger of acq uiring HIV and that is why statistics point at us. You may think that there is no longer F GM, because you do not see the girls in such ceremonies as initiation as it used to be some years ago, but it is done to babies just days after birth and it is difficult to realize,” added the Coordinator. She further said that HIV infection rate in the district stands at 2.4 percent, adding that it has remained the same this year, as it was in 2017. However, she called upon men to heed the call of knowing their sero-statues in big numbers, instead of leaving testing to women only. On her side, World Vision Coordinator in Kitumbeine Project, Ms Hellen Kennedy, hinted that her organisation was carrying out sensitisation programmes to the communities, including children for them to know their rights. Of late the World Vision has grown to be one of the largest humanitarian and development organisations in Tanzania, covering 13 out 33 Regions across 40 Districts, in 48 areas with the programme. World Vision Tanzania strategy 2016-2020 has the priority areas in livelihood, health, nutrition and water, sanitation and hygiene; education, advocacy and justice for children with livelihood being the primary sector. It also runs spiritual nourishment as well as protection of children in its targeted areas. In 2017 World Vision Tanzania spent $ 30,398,821 to directly improve the lives of 13.3 million Tanzanian children. WVT works with all people regardless of tribe, religion and ethnicity to help improve and sustain the well-being of children within families and communities, especially the most vulnerable. By 2020, it projects to contribute to the measurable improvement in the sustained well-being of 15 million boys and girls – especially the most vulnerable.