TOMORROW is New Year and, according to everyone’s calendar, you’re reading on the eve of 2018. If that’s what you believe, you’ve left yours truly behind – because he’s still reconciling the accounts for FY 1850. Before you judge us in a rush, please listen to our tale of woes over 2018 … On a commuter bus last week I chanced upon a motivational message which read: Love is Greater than Cancer. It was scrolled on a T-shirt and visibly spread across the ample shoulders of a lady, where I and everyone else, who saw it in that dala dala wouldn’t miss the point that it’s not the end of the world even with a disease once considered terminal – of cancer by any other category: of the breast, cervical or prostrate. Possibly a health worker herself, the wearer of that T-shirt – that lady fellow commuter -- was certainly out to provide cool comfort: that you aren’t presumed dead the moment you are diagnosed with cancer, as long as you’ve the support from loving family and friends. Scary as it often sounds, cancer isn’t always terminal, though it calls for tonnes of loving care and positive living. The only trouble is, I wasn’t on positive mode when I read that ‘motivational’ message because I was musing over the fate of an entirely new kind of cancer; yes, it’s that disease now eating away at the only place we all call home -- and the home itself is divided with precious little love to share around. The current narrative reminds me of the ‘parable’ of two suitors who, once upon a village beauty, sat down to share a snack of freshly harvested karanga (peanuts). Upon seeing the girl coming their way, one of them stealthily shoved away almost all the husks to the other side, ostensibly creating the impression that his friend was a glutton, and that he’d eaten most from the pile of peanuts. “Just see for yourself,” he began, gesturing expectantly, “… this guy is so selfish he’s eaten all the peanuts … this is the kind of man who’ll starve you to death … come famine.” “Woe unto you … if you were to marry him” countered the other man, clearly posturing himself as most eligible. “This big mouth has gorged everything … husks and all the oily heart-nuts within the short time it took to peel mine,” Well, there’s no prize for picking the glutton between the two suitors, is there? Back home in the foot hills facing the sprawling Wembere Steppe, sons of cattle herders are very fond of telling, or retelling, this parable and passing it on to the next generations – somewhat adulterated with because of translation. But that’s for those lucky enough to join us cattle herders at our fireside. In the meantime, welcome to Katowice, a city in Poland where world nations met early this month – 30,000 (formal) delegates and others from 200 countries – for the 4th edition of what has come to be known as annual climate change negotiation conferences. Under the auspices of the United Nations, this year’s conference took place 24 years since the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) was set up, and the fourth since countries agreed to deal known as the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change. The two-week conference, code-named COP24 on account of 24 years since establishment of the framework convention, against a backdrop of urgency: the need to arrest the accumulation of climate-polluting emissions which cause global warming. Ironically, the hosts Poland are still heavily depended on coal, one of the most polluting sources of energy – and therein lies the crux of my woeful reflections over the year we’re ‘killing’ as today’s midnight fast approaches. Side show As a side show to the main conference, the Ministry of Environment and the host country’s General Directorate for Environmental Protection, put up a Pavilion themed, EMAS in Practice to showcase best practices in coping with uncertain futures. EMAS is shorthand for Nasustainable tional Eco-Management and Audit Scheme – which the Polish Environment Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, and the country’s General Director of Environmental Protection Andrzej Szweda- Lewandowski, handed out to the nation’s 10 organisations, ostensibly for outstanding performance at keeping at bay the impacts of climate change. “The EU EMAS system is a useful tool for creating a culture of sustainable development in organisations as well as for effective management of available resources. “During the preparation and conduct of the conference, the Ministry of Environment, as the organiser of COP24, in cooperation with the contractors and consulting the UNFCCC secretariat, applied a number of environmentally friendly solutions. The jubilee certificate is awarded to organisations that have been listed in the EMAS register for at least 10 years, and for whom protection of the environment and Nasustainable development principles are a recipe for success,” explained Kowalczyk, who also chaired the global COP24. And, his deputy, Sławomir Mazurek, added: “In Poland, 68 companies are EMAS certified, which puts us in sixth place. It is a major contribution to environmental protection and sustainable development.” Among others, EMAS awards went to: the Road and Bridges Construction Enterprise Co. Ltd; Provincial Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in Katowice; Bombardier Transportation; and another going by the name of “Heat Energy Joint-Stock” company – alongside a paper mill and water supply/sewerage enterprises. So what are the most important issues behind this EMAS system, we may ask? One, Poland’s Environment Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, et al were in fact engaged in what we call “economic diplomacy” which smart enjoys now employ to make a ‘side business’ for the country as they “toast” to a successful conference with foreign dignitaries. Secondly, you shouldn’t be surprised when you next see the EMAS laureates prowling African policy corridors, selling their ideas as “cure-all” remedies to our own situation. And, the pressure sales teams are about town, touting what’s “new” on the marketplace: ‘smart’ agriculture, ‘climate-resilient’ growth, ‘clean’ coal, ‘forests as carbon’ sinks, ‘climate’ finance, down to what they call “low-carbon”. And, to impress upon us that we’ve precious little choice – except buy – one of our development ‘partners’ warns, emphasis mine, to wit: “There is a need to plan ‘robust’ strategies to prepare for uncertain futures rather than using uncertainty as reason for inaction.” We then begin to understand why JPM is so averse to the beloved global jamborees. Yea, and as for yours truly, we’re back to 1850, when Planet Earth started chafing and sneezing with foul smell at the end of ‘industrial’ pipeline – which our Western development partners are now telling us to avoid like the plague. Cell: 0712122128 Email: shanimpinga@gmail.com