THE government has called upon health stakeholders to refrain from fraudulent actions, warning that stern action will be taken against dishonest ones. The call was made by the Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Children and Elderly, Dr Faustine Ndugulile in his remarks as the Chief Guest, while presiding over a meeting organised by Association of Tanzania Insurers (ATI), in Dar es Salaam, yesterday. Dr Ndugulile said that the government was aware of the fraudulent actions that are committed by some service providers and beneficiaries, unearthing that at sometimes perpetrated clandestinely between the health insurance beneficiaries and dishonest employees. The deputy minister pointed out that whoever would be involved in the crime, should be prepared to face the law. “The fifth-phase government, led by President John Magufuli is keen to tackle corruption and fraud, in this case there would be no stone left unturned,” he said. However, Dr Ndugulile equally called upon the public to report with accuracy their respective authorities suspected to be in the scam, so that action be taken against them including dragging them to court. He said the government values the contribution of the private sector, and the health insurance company including them as its key partners, saying it would continue to ensure good working environment to enhance further collaboration between them. He added that although the number of new health insurance beneficiaries has increased to 32 per cent, most of them are urban dwellers and that the number was still low in line with the 2020 Universal Health Coverage goal which targets 70 per cent of Tanzanians. To achieve the goal, the deputy minister hinted that the government was preparing a bill that would require each citizen to enroll with health insurance. Earlier, ATI chairperson, Mr Suleiman Khamis applauded the government for the effort made in improving health services in the country, including the move to ensure that every citizen is covered by health insurance of the quality he/she deserves. The ATI Chairperson added that the meeting which brought together health insurance stakeholders heightens finding solutions for a number of challenges faced, leading to a better system of sharing information and discussing on how to have price regulated for better health insurance services. Mr Elia Kajiba, who represented Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority’s (TIRA) Commissioner, Dr Baghayo Saqware urged all the stakeholders to adhere to the Insurance Act of 2009. He said the Authority would continue to effectively implement its regulatory functions; hence called upon every actor to embrace integrity for a better nation.