SPECIAL Economic Processing Zone (EPZA) has assured Chinese investors on market availability and good working environment if they invest in an electronic producing factory in the country. Speaking during a conference with a delegation from Changhong Electric Co limited of Sichuan province in China who are in the country to explore investment opportunities, EPZA’s Director General (Rtd) Col. Joseph Simbakalia said that Tanzania has all that needed for small to big companies to invest and generate profit. “Tanzania enjoys greater political stability, skilled labor force, availability of land while it has a dependable gate for importing and exporting goods through its ports,” he said. He told investors Tanzania has also big market of approximately 50 million people while it is an important link to the six East African Community member states and that of the 16 states of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and it enjoys good bilateral relation with other African nations. For the investors who are initially eying to start with refrigerator (Compressors) and television manufacturing, the EPZA boss assured that the country has got adequate raw materials locally available. “Tanzania has natural gas, Nickel, iron Ore, titanium and vanadium minerals to meet production needs,” he said. The Vice General Manager of the Changhong electric company limited said that his company, which is a globally recognized electrics manufacture, is searching for not only for African market but for investment opportunities where it will start as an assembling plant and later produce its goods within the continent. Mr Simbakalia assured the prospective investor that through special economic zones program that involves investments in manufacturing for exports that it has special economic zone for industrial park while Tanzania has invested in transportation infrastructure of reaching other markets. He assured them of those investors under EPZ license enjoys a 10 years cooperate tax free, machinery and cooperate tax free. According to him, the introduction of Chinese bank in Tanzania will reduce investment and transaction overheads where the investor will perform their transactions using Chinese currency (Yuan) and Tanzania currency no medium currency. He said that apart from the country having four major ports of Dar es salaam, Tanga, Mtwara and Zanzibar, EPZA has secured and prepared land for EPZ investments activities in Bunda District, Manyara, Kigoma, Tanga, Ruvuma and Mtwara regions. For his side, Public relations officer for the Dar es salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) which hosted the potential investor Mr Amani Kakana, said that his institute is training manpower to meet qualified labor. “DIT offers courses of telecommunication engineering, refrigeration, electrical and electronics, at different levels, the investors expressed excitement after meeting with EPZA” said Kakana.