GROWTH of local contractors is choked by incessant challenges that bar the players from actively and competitively taking part in construction projects threatening their survival in the fast-growing sector. The Chairman of Contractors Association of Tanzania (CATA) Eng Lawrence Mwakyambiki listed four obstacles namely lack of capital, low capacity of local contractors, bias in awarding government construction jobs to public institutions, and tender illegibility criteria that discriminate against local contractors. “Lack of capital is a chronic problem, the government through the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication should set conducive environment for the establishment of reliable capital sources,” he said during the 2018 Contractors Day. He said for example, the possible sustainable capital resources as ‘Contractors Bank’ and ‘Contractors Guarantee Fund’. In addition, the law should be enacted that forces clients to adhere to Payment Bond to hedge contractors against possible payment defaulters. On low capacity, Mr Mwakyambiki said there was need for the government to review laws related to procurement and engineers registration to provide for integration of local contractors into projects run by foreign counterparts to at least 30 per cent of contract works value in favour of the former. “Hand in hand with that there is need for the government to initiate a lot of experimental projects in all sectors, a good example is the Ministry of Works which through TANROADS has been giving local contractors opportunities through preferential tender awards in such projects,” he said. Another challenge was the illegibility criteria set in projects financed by Development Partners like the World Bank that requires an applying contractor to have registered an average annual turnover of between 10 million US dollars to 20 million US dollars for a period of five consecutive years. “This benchmark is set too high and is unrealistic,” he said. The Executive Director of Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Godfrey Simbeye said the priceless contribution of the construction sector in any economy in the world was ‘irrefutable’.