THERE is no doubt at all that the date, month, and year, of Tanganyika’s independence ( now Tanzania Mainland) are matters of vital importance, for they constitute the actual starting point of the country’s political history. Indeed, the year in which the country’s independence should be granted, was a matter of great political significance for Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and the political party which he led, the Tanganyik a African national Union (TANU). For them, the year of independence HAD to be 1961, and not even one month beyond that. It therefore came to me as a very pleasant reminder when, as we were approaching this year’s Tanzania Mainland’s anniversary independence day celebrations earlier this month, one of the most ardent readers of this column, Ndugu Adam Malima, enthusiastically posted on his group forum’s network , my article titled “ why Tanganyika’s independence was granted on 9th December, 1961. Apparently, Adam Malima had missed reading the said article at the time when it was published, two years ago in December 2016; and must have suddenly discovered its existence only at this time. Hence, his enthusiasm in wanting to share it with his entire group. I understand that his group consists of all former Members of Parliament; which easily mak es it a formidable and influential group of k nowledgeable political actors. Thus, the mere fact that this high profile group attaches such great importance to that particular piece of our political history; I tak e this to be a reliable indication that there are many other Tanzanians who would be interested in getting access to that historical narrative, which is actually quite interesting, but is generally unk nown. Hence, on that assumption, and in order to enable those enthusiasts to access the relevant information, the full story is repeated here below. It is the true story of how the 1961 Christmas and New Year festival season became the sole factor determining the choice of Tanganyik a’s Independence Day, namely the 9th of December, 1961. It has been rightly said, that “ History is past politics” . Mwalimu Nyerere’s influence Since we are revisiting history, it may be appropriate and helpful, to reveal that the last ‘ League of Nations visiting Mission’ to Tanganyik a, which took place in 1959 to assess the progress being made towards Tanganyik a’s independence, had reported that “Tanganyika would be ready for independence in twenty or twenty five years”. Thus according to that prediction, Tanganyik a would have become independent in 1984! It should be appreciated that it is only Mwalimu Nyerere’s unique leadership style, which facilitated the fast-track ing of Tanganyika’s independence to as early as 1961. This is evidenced by the contents of a letter written to the Colonial Office by Tanganyika’s Governor, Sir Richard Turnbull, in which he said: “ It is essential to use Nyerere while he is still in power. If we wait too long, he will be ousted by the extremists, and with him will go all hope of an enduring European influence in Tanganyik a. Indeed the year 1960 may present the last chance we have, to prevent Tanganyika from becoming a purely African state. If we go into a shooting match, Nyerere will be quickly displaced as a leader, and instead of him we shall have a group of hairy men, demanding Africa for Africans only”. The Independence Constitutional Conference The standard British Government procedure for granting independence to its former colonies and other Administered Territories, was to hold, at an appropriate time, a formal ‘Constitutional conference’ between the representatives of the British Government, and those of the country seek ing independence. These conferences had the twin purpose of (a) reaching agreement on the constitution of the new independent state; and ( b) to determine the actual date of the relevant country’s independence. With the exception of Tanganyika, all the other countries’ Constitutional Conferences were invariably held at Lancaster House in London. Tanganyika was the only exception, when our Constitutional Conference was heldnot in London, but at Karimj ee Hall, in Dar es Salaam, from 27 th to 29th March, 1961. No one explained why Tanganyik a became the exception in that regard; but it was widely believed at that time that there were two factors which influenced the British decision to hold that conference in Dar es Salaam. One was the British Government’s respect and high regard for Mwalimu Nyerere’s leadership style, as evidenced by Governor Turnbull’s letter quoted above. The other was the conducive and supportive outlook of the newly appointed Colonial Secretary of State, Hon. Ian MacLeod. The relevant records inform that “ He (Ian MacLeod) saw the colonies as purely a problem to be solved, rather than a responsibility to be shouldered . . . He agreed with Governor Richard Turnbull that it was safer to move quick ly, rather than slowly”. The outcome of that conference regarding its twin purposes, was that it promptly agreed, without much ado, on the form and contents of the Constitution of independent Tanganyika; and, equally promptly, it also unanimously determined the date for Tanganyika’s independence. The agreed date was 28th December, 1961. But that was not to be. Instead of that date, Tanganyika became independent on 9th December, 1961. That is the story which is told here. It is interesting, simply because of the reasons which were advanced for changing the previously agreed date; which was no other than that “the 28th of December was going to seriously inconvenience the British dignitaries who were scheduled to travel to Dar es Salaam to hand over the instruments of independence”. Considering that the person who had been designated to hand over those instruments, was Queen Elizabeth’s own husband, Prince Phillip, the Duk e of Edinburgh; the reason given for changing that date becomes clearly inevitable, in the light of protocol requirements. The reason was, actually, no other than the need to avoid disturbing the Royal family’s Christmas and New year holidays, by separating Prince Phillip from the rest of the Royal family, during this most important festival season; as he would have been required to be away from Buckingham Palace for the greater part of the period between Christmas and New year; holed up in Dar es Salaam in order to perform all the major functions relating to the granting of independence, including the official opening of the new Parliament of independent Tanganyik a. Thus, because it had been agreed that independence had to be granted before the end of the year 1961, an earlier date had to be found. At a meeting which was reportedly held in London on 19th June 1961 by the British side alone, it was agreed to bring forward the date of Tanganyik a’s independence from 28th to 20th December, 1961. Of course, on Nyerere’s part, that was welcome news, because the earlier the colonial government departed, the better. But it later turned out that even this proposed new date of 20th December was not to be, as the Colonial Secretary of State subsequently made a statement in the House of Commons, in which he announced that Tanganyik a would become independent on 9th December, 1961. The unusual aspect of this story is that the incident established a totally unrelated connection between a purely private family event, namely, the enjoyment of the Christmas and New Year festival season, and a maj or political event relating to the granting of the instruments of independence to Tanganyika. Even though the Christmas and New Year festival season is internationally recognized, but it is always celebrated privately by families, friends or relatives. They hardly ever attract any intervention by the government, such as happened in the case of the action tak en by the British Government on this occasion, when such a major decision regarding the date of Tanganyik a’s independence date was changed to suit the private convenience of the British Royal family. Further reflections on the Tanganyika constitutional conference We referred above, to the factor of Mwalimu Nyerere’s unique leadership style having facilitated the fast-track ing of Tanganyik a’s independence. It may be useful to add that his unique leadership style also facilitated the fast-track ing of the deliberations of the Tanganyik a constitutional conference. What actually happened at that conference, is that the assembled delegates were able to reach unanimous agreement on the contents of Tanganyik a’s proposed independence Constitution after only a very brief discussion. This is because Mwalimu Nyerere, the leader of the TANU delegation at the conference, did not really want to go into any detailed negotiations regarding the nature and structure of independent Tanganyika’s Constitution, because he was of the firm view that the Constitution of independent Tanganyika should properly be determined by the people of Tanganyika themselves after independence, without the participation of the British Government, simply because it is none of their business. Mwalimu Nyerere’s only concern was to reach agreement on the date of Tanganyik a’s independence, which TANU had promised the people that it would be achieved BEFORE the end of the year 1961. Nyerere was therefore mostly concerned that this promise had to be fulfilled. And fortunately, presumably due to his ex traordinary negotiating sk ills, plus the apparent good will on the part of the leader of the British delegation (who was also the conference Chairman), the conference was able to reach agreement on this matter fairly quick ly, not only on the date of complete independence, but also on the intermediate stages leading to that date. The prepared statement which was read to the press by the Conference Chairman said: “ We have unanimously agreed that Tanganyik a will be granted ‘ Responsible Self Government’ on 1st May, 1961; and further that Tanganyika will become independent on 28th December, 1961”. Discarding the British crafted independence Constitution Discarding the British crafted independence Constitution was the other major concern of Mwalimu Nyerere, for it was, literally, imposed by the outgoing British Administration. In the first place, it had been drafted in London without Tanganyik a’s participation, and when it was tabled for discussion at the Karimjee Hall Constitutional Conference, Mwalimu Nyerere, although dissatisfied with the draft, he had seen no reason whatsoever for wasting valuable time discussing the Constitution of independent Tanganyika with the British government, as that was entirely none of their business. He was dissatisfied with the British draft because, in his own words, “It was essentially an alien document which, in the eyes of the majority of the people of Tanganyika, appeared to be the embodiment of colonial, or neocolonial paternalism”. This is because it retained the British Monarch as the Head of State of an independent Tanganyik a, represented within the country be a Governor-General, who had power to appoint Ministers, and was also the Chairman of the Cabinet. That Constitution did indeed make provision for the appointment by the Governor-General of a Prime Minister, who would be the Head of Government; and Mwalimu Nyerere was duly appointed to that position. But still, the distinction between the Head of State and the Head of Government was so blurred, that it was not readily understood by the majority of the people of Tanganyika. Thus, true to his word, very soon after the attainment of independence, Mwalimu Nyerere embarked on the process of enacting new Republican Constitution. Which was based on two cardinal principles, which were: ( a) “ As far as possible, the institutions of government must be such that they can be easily understood by the people. And in particular, the separation of powers between the ‘ Head of State’ and the ‘Head of Government’ should be avoided. ( b) The Executive should have the necessary powers to carry out the functions of a modern state, specifically the achievement of economic development and the provision of social services; in order to be able to handle the difficult task s of eradicating widespread poverty, ignorance and diseases. The Republican Constitution was eventually enacted in November 1962, and became operational on 9th December, 1962, which was the first anniversary of Tanganyika’s independence.