A COUNTRY of workers and peasants; that’s how our country has been characterised for several years after we gained political independence. Going by simple logic, that is a befitting characterisation, and, for the sake of setting things in sharper perspective, we may add fishermen and livestock keepers onto the list. Given that the country is considerably vast, and a fairly high proportion of the population is engaged in agricultural productivity, that sector is critical to the enhancement of the country’s economic advancement. The other broad segment of the population comprises workers who are engaged in an assortment of activities, such as in factories, the construction industry, the education and health sector. Our economy having been largely peasant-based, it was pertinent for governments starting with the pioneer one led by Founding President Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, to focus much attention on the agricultural sector. It may be recalled that co-operative societies that coordinated the activities revolving around crops like coffee, cotton and cashew nuts were among considerably powerful economic drivers. Foreign exchange earnings from the crops were critical for boosting the country’s economy. Some blunders and distortions crept in along the way, which undermined the agricultural sector. One of the manifestations to that end has been rural-urban migration by mostly young, energetic people in pursuit of livelihoods through pursuits that include petty trading. Restoration of the agricultural sector to its original glory is one of the government’s major missions. President John Magufuli is one of the front liners to that end. Agriculture, and the concept under which peasants are perceived as highly potential economic drivers, is being given its due attention. Recent initiatives to streamline the cashew nut sector is one of the notable manifestations. The Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB), for instance, has unveiled a plan to build capacity for local cashew nut processors, to enable them increase production and value addition to the cash crop. And a joint initiative by several agricultural stakeholders is turning around the economic fortunes of Irish potato farmers in Njombe, Mbeya and Iringa regions. Farm Radio International (FRI), through the UPTAKE Project financially supported by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) under the New Alliance ICT Extension Fund Activity, is undertaking an initiative that is boosting farmers’ productivity through the Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania (SAGCOT).