FORMER USA President George H W Bush who died last week was of the World War 2 generation that strived to shape the ensuing world order. As a naval pilot, Texan oil magnate, Congressman, Ambassador, CIA Director, Vice- President and President he played a significant part in the emergence of the United State as a super power; the confrontation with the Soviet Union in the Cold war and the guest for a global political and economic order dictated by and in the image of, the USA. He was a key player in the Republican Presidencies of Richard Nixon (1969-1974), Gerald Ford (1974-1977), Ronald Reagan (1981-1989) and his own administration (1989-1993), not to mention underhand influence of that of his son, George W Bush (2003-2009). This had implications directly or otherwise on Africa. Although less extreme than his Republican Presidential colleagues he nevertheless pushed Washington’s opposition to the wars of national liberation against the white minority regimes in Southern Africa; advanced the fight against communism and socialism; exhibited a-distaste for progressive African countries opening up to the Soviets and the Chin Opposition to the liberation struggle included isolation of the liberation movements such as South Africa’s African National Congress (ANC); while extending political, diplomatic and material support including armaments to apartheid South Africa, Rhodesia and the Portuguese colonialists. However, boycotting the freedom fighters collapsed before George Bush’s own eyes. As UN Ambassador in the late 1960s he sat next to and interacted with, the UN Tanzanian and Zambian Ambassadors John S. Malecela and Vernon J. Mwaanga respectively. The latter were highly respected especially because of the central role played by founder Presidents Julius Nyerere and Kenneth Kaunda in Pan-African and decolonization issues. As he rubbed shoulders with the two African diplomats freedom fighters would appear to greet the two envoys in the presence of Bush. One of them was the Permanent Representative of the South West Africa Peoples’ Organization (SWAPO) of Namibia to the UN, Hage Geingob, now President of Namibia. This opened the way for the freedom fighters to rub shoulders with other Western block envoys. In this way George H W Bush unintentionally facilitated freedom fighters to meet him and his colleagues despite their countries’ policy of shunning those who were viewed as “terrorists”. The USA’s opposition to meetings with the freedom fighters, persisted especially in the Reagan era. However, by 1984 South African Archbishop Desmund Tutu, a Noble laureate had acquired such aura of respectability that when he asked for a meeting with the Reagan/Bush White House, the President had no option but to meet him. Given mounting sanctions against apartheid South Africa George H W Bush, then Vice- President was dispatched to Africa to defend an IMF loan to Pretoria. Speaking at the USA Cultural Centre in Lusaka, Zambia, then the headquarters of the ANC he told a disbelieving audience including his old friend, Ambassador Vernon Mwaanga that politics should be separated from economic issues. It was a somewhat-belated rearguard action. In 1985 the apartheid regime opened secret talks with the imprisoned ANC leader Nelson Mandela. And despite USA/Republican support to the white supremacists Portuguese colonialism collapsed in 1975 during the transitional lame duck administration of Republican President Gerald Ford; Zimbabwe attained independence in 1980 with the Democrat President Jimmy Carter in the Oval Office and Namibia and South Africa became free under President Bill Clinton, a Democrat. USA Republican support for the Mozambican and Angolan insurgency under RENAMO and UNITA respectively destabilized the countries but could not overthrow the progressive FRELIMO and MPLA governments. George H W Bush’s CIA played a led role in covert operations in these and other countries. As President George H W Bush’s intervention in war-torn Somalia in 1993 met his Waterloo; the USA interventionist forces suffered major casualties before they were hurriedly forced to withdraw leaving behind a failed divided state amidst safe havens for terrorist networks from Al-Shabaab to Al-Qaeda that continues to cause havoc in Somalia, Kenya and the Indian Ocean Rim a quarter of a century later. As Ambassador to the UN, George Bush Senior opposed the admittance of Communist China and the expulsion of Taiwan from the world body. This was opposed by most countries with Tanzania’s Ambassador Salim Ahmed Salim taking a lead role. When Beijing took Taipei’s seat at the UN in 1972 Mr Bush was very cross and retained a grudge. When Salim’s candidature for the UN Secretary Generalship came up in 1981, the Reagan/Bush White House successively squashed it. Eventually Washington DC itself opened up to China including a stint by Bush himself as Ambassador to Beijing. The Reagan/Bush and Bush/Dan Quayle White House (1981-1993) introduced Reaganomics, a set of neo-liberal economic policies agreed upon by the USA Treasury, the World Bank and the IMF. They were imposed on the Third World countries via aid conditionality: devaluation of national currencies, market-determined interest and exchange rates, liberal trade policies, removal of controls on trade/traffic flows and parastatal divestiture and privatisation of state owned enterprises. These policy packages referred to as “the Washington consensus” were strictly enforced by the Bretton Woods institutions which forced President Nyerere to somewhat sarcastically ask, “When did the IMF become the International Ministry of Finance”? A lot of restructuring of international economic relations has happened especially since the 2008 global financial and economic crisis. This has been reinforced by the emergence of the economic South with China as an emerging superpower. Mr Bush Sr. has died at a time of unravelling of the global world order that he and a host of USA Presidents had built since he fought for America and the West in WW2. Also going down the drain are the values that Washington DC fought to hold for decades.