THE November-December 2018 session of the Zanzibar House of Representatives has ended here, with the Second Vice-President, Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi calling on members of the public to support government's development initiatives along with promoting good behaviour and hard work. In his speech before successfully moving a motion to adjourn the House session to February 06, 2019, Mr Iddi commended lawmakers for constructive debate during the session which started on November 28, 2018, and asked them to increase awareness among their electorate to support development programmes. "Since our session coincided with the International Day for AIDS and People with Disabilities, we must take the issues seriously. We must avoid risk factors to contract HIV/AIDS and as civilized people, we should respect people with disabilities by taking into consideration their rights," Mr Iddi said. He encouraged people to go for voluntary HIV testing, saying this is one of the workable ways to control the spread of HIV and also directed architects in the country, particularly when dealing with public buildings, to ensure that people with disabilities can easily access all areas. The second vice president also urged people in Zanzibar to prevent the increase of Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs), including cancer, high blood pressure and diabetes by avoiding risk factors like smoking, obesity and not doing frequent exercises. In his speech, Mr Iddi condemned the increasing gender based violence (GBV), saying the 1,091 and 2,449 cases of GBV recorded in 2017/2018 and 2016/2017 respectively is an indication that the problem is still big in the society, necessitating an increase in awareness. The second VP also condemned this week's leakage of Form II national examinations, saying "It is a shame to the nation and must not happen again. All those behind the act must be brought to book." During the House session, three bills were discussed and approved: "An Act to provide for provisions to regulate the delivery of Legal Aid Services; and 'An Act to Repeal the Zanzibar Investment Promotion and Protection Act, No. 11 of 2004; and an 'Act to Repeal the Cooperative Societies Act, No. 4 of 1986.