CHIEF Justice (CJ) Prof Ibrahim Juma yesterday enumerated wrongdoings that may subject lawyers to disciplinary actions or total suspension, reminding them to refrain from the misdeeds. He cited some of the misdeeds as concealing information from client, failure to deliver services due to excessive alcohol consumption or drug abuse, shoddy work, poorly drafted pleadings, mistakes, errors or striking out pleadings. Others include failure to respond to files, reply to pleadings, write letters on behalf of clients and occasion delays and secure an office which they can be traced with court, client or colleagues. Prof Juma made the observation at the 59th Enrollment and Admission Ceremony of 909 newly Advocates which was held in Dar es Salaam, yesterday. "Every advocate has a major responsibility to deliver quality services, demonstrate good behaviour within and outside the environment of the court. Law is a noble profession which requires trust. In maintaining trust in the dispensation of quality services the Advocates Professional Conduct and Etiquette Regulations of 2018 is now operational," said Prof Juma. He said that the regulations act as a reminder to the practitioners in performing their responsibilities diligently and also accord for measures against any violations. "For among the things being highlighted in the regulations include securing a permanent office address, we will soon demand lawyers to register the location of their offices, postcodes so that they can easily be reached by either the court, clients or fellow colleagues," he noted. The CJ disclosed among things which may lead to lawyers to be reported by their clients to the Advocates Committee or courts of law include professional negligence. The Attorney General (AG), Dr Adelarus Kilangi urged newly admitted advocates to adhere to the codes of conduct, rules and procedures of the profession, calling upon them to deliver their duties competently. "Competency is a legal duty, your admission will be meaningless if you fail to deliver your duties well competitively," said Dr Kilangi. "As for the state attorneys, legal officers and other law practitioners in the public services who are under supervision of the AG's office, you should be reminded that your client is the government.”