THIS week the whole world witnessed the signing of construction of one the world’s largest hydroelectricity power dam between the government of Tanzania and the contractor from Egypt. With the capacity of producing more than 2,100 megawatts, Stiegler’s Gorge hydroelectric dam will be the fifth largest in Africa and sixtieth in the world where every country is trying to maximize natural resources within its geographical position. Covering about 1,350 square kilometers Stiegler’s Gorge hydroelectric dam will be ready by 2021 when 3 percent of Selous Game Reserve is expected to be utilized for the benefit of the rest of the country. Which has set more than 32.5 percent of its area for conservation of flora and fauna found in this largest and most beautiful country in East Africa. From the beginning of this nation in 1960s the government is doing efforts to protect lakes, rivers, natural forests, game reserves and national parks. To some people these are useless efforts and from their points of views all these preserved sanctuary should be opened to people for fishing, cutting timber for building materials, collecting fire woods, grazing animals and mining activities. Founders of our nation may be regarded as first zoologist of the country because they managed portion of sustainable part of the land for conservational activities. South Africa, Mali, Angola, Niger, Chad, Libya, Sudan, DRC and Algeria are largest countries in Africa because each covers an area of more than 1,200,000 square kilometers. With an area which covers about 945,087 square kilometers, The United Republic of Tanzania has portioned more than 118,736. 56 for 28 game reserves available in different parts of the country. Unlike most countries in central and east Africa, it is being estimated that big water bodies in Tanzania such as lakes; Eyasi, Natron, Rukwa, Nyasa, Tanganyika, Victoria and others occupy about 59,050 square kilometers leaving 886,037 square kilometers for dry land for people and other land dwelling creatures. This and other factors give Tanzania the right to take 3 percent from Selous Game Reserve which covers more than 50,000 square kilometers. Because of good conservation policy and activities the game reserve is the prime home of more than 80,000 huge Nile crocodiles and more than 40,000 hippopotamus are found in Rufiji river and different lakes including Tagalala, Segese, Mwanamtonga, Makube, Siwandu and Mzizima. With its main source in the southern Tanzania, Rufiji river stretches for about 600 kilometers long through a catchment basin covering more than 177,429 square kilometers square where the Great Ruaha plays an important role as the main supplier with catchment area covering 83,970 square kilometers. Kilombero catchment area 39,990 square kilometers and others minor rivers catchment areas covering 53,460 square kilometers. The main source is found on Kipengere range of mountains where the amount of rainfall every year is enough to feed all the streams that form a good network of small rivers which form main rivers that supply water to Rufiji river the largest in Tanzania. This is a part of what is called hydro cycle which started about 4.5 years ago when a huge rainy cloud from Mars hovered on top of our planet and brought showers for the first time on land and from that time to date humans, animals, birds and insects continue to live on the Earth where they depend on nuts, seeds, fruits, cereals, and leaves and grasses which are nourished by rain in different season of the year. Scientists say rainfall is one of different stages of a big hydrological cycle which is also called H2O cycle that allow water in different forms to rotate in and around the planet Earth. This process enable liquid water from different sources inside tropical rain-forests to flow through streams which forms big rivers such as; Ruvu, Wami, Pangani, Ruvuma, Malagarasi and Rufiji that pour all their contents into the Indian ocean every year from 150 million years ago. By constructing the great dam on Rufiji river, Tanzania will get fruits of conservation because the water body will be used for different economic activities such as fishing but the dam may be used as an additional tourist attraction. On the other hand history shows that it is more significantly the dam will join big lakes such as Victoria, Tanganyika and Nyasa join hands with other bigger water bodies on earth such as Pacific, Atlantic and Indian ocean to make 361.132 square kilometers which occupy and refresh the 70.08 percent of the total area of planet earth with cool air. Due to this size, scientists estimate that all water bodies around the world harbor more than 230,000 marine species were crocodile and hippopotamus are found around rivers and lakes, sharks, dolphins and whales dwell in different sea and oceans of the world. By having a giant water body around them different animals around Selous game reserve will flourish. With about 1.3 billion cubic kilometers of water along streams, rivers, lakes, seas and oceans which play a big role of preserving water in liquid form for longer period than any parts in and around the planet earth. Scientists estimate before evaporating into the sky one liter of water spend more than 3,200 years moving from one part to another inside larger water bodies such as Pacific, Atlantic and Indian ocean but this period lasts up to more than 20,000 years in Antarctic and Arctic. The above account shows that by constructing Stiegler's Gorge Hydroelectric the weather around Selous game reserve will be good. Meanwhile depending on supply from different streams and rivers, big lakes such as Victoria, Tanganyika and Nyasa are capable of preserving one liter of water for a period which lasts between 50 to 100 years before it is discharged into the sea through big rivers such as Nile which empty its content into the Mediterranean sea. Unlike streams and rivers such as Wami, Ruaha and Rufiji which pass under forest canopies, the rate of evaporation on lakes, seas and oceans is bigger because of large surface which is exposed to sun-rays from the sky. Hot sun-rays hit water on the surface of a lake and heat its molecules into a boiling point where they are transformed into vapors which through a process called evaporation escape into the sky where they form rainy clouds. Although there are different factors which affect this process but the number of molecules and good amount of oxygen in a single drop of water on the surface of a water body plays an important role in evaporation on big lakes such as Victoria, Tanganyika and Nyasa. When the rate of fresh air enter into a water body become bigger it accelerate the rate of evaporation on the surface of a lake or ocean. While gravitation force which act upon molecules may bring down the rate of evaporation on the surface water. At a long process of the big hydrological cycle, the evaporation stage plays a crucial role to purify water before sending it to the sky where it stay in form of clouds before it turns into rain which nourish lives of animals, birds, insects and vegetation on the earth. This means that Stiegler's Gorge Hydroelectric power along Rufiji river will impact positively the weather around Selous game reserve and farmers in Iringa, Njombe, Mbeya, Songwe, Morogoro and Pwani will get more rain showers because of the impact of hydrological cycle which give space and time for water to stay in within the area before going into the sea. This is a result of what the government is doing because right from independence to recent years about 56,698.80 square kilometers has been portioned for 17 national parks where Serengeti the most popular animal sanctuary is available, having such a big area for national parks and game reserves, Tanzania leads the World with a big number of animals roaming in the wild. With an area which covers about 49,768 square kilometers, Naukluft of Namibia is the largest in Africa but with an area of more than 55,000 square kilometers Selous is one the largest game reserve in the World, with such a big land, Selous has one of the largest populations of elephants and African buffaloes. With an area which covers about 22,400 square kilometers, Kafue of Zambia is the largest in Africa but Ruaha national has more than 20,226 square kilometers, with a very big area, Ruaha is regarded as an almost virgin national park where big mammals such as elephants, buffaloes, giraffes, lions, leopards, hyenas and cheetah are found in great numbers. Unlike other parks in Africa, Ruaha is endowed with a good number of antelopes such as roan antelope, sable antelope, greater and lesser kudu and other species of bovines. Tanzania leads others in number of wildebeests, zebras, lions, hippos, buffaloes, Thomson’s gazelle, hyena and more than 400 different species of birds.