CHAMA Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) is considering introducing insurance issues in its 2020 general election manifesto to boost government revenues and promote domestic insurance companies. The move will see all big development projects insured domestically and contributing to the national economy growth as well as insuring government properties which for many years lacked the cover against risks. Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA) delegation that paid a courtesy call to CCM Secretary General Dr Bashiru Ally in his Dar es Salaam office over the weekend, proposed inclusion of insurance related matters in the party’s manifesto. TIRA Commissioner General Dr Baghayo Saqware ()told his host that the authority proposes among others, to have all big development projects insured domestically, with records showing that most of the projects that are being executed by foreign contractors and consultants were insured in foreign countries. Dr Saqware said Tanzania has been losing a huge business opportunity that could contribute to growth of the national economy and promote the country’s insurance sector. He further noted that TIRA was keen to have all government owned properties—including vehicles and marine vessels—insured. “Our proposal is to have all these issues included in the party’s next (election) manifesto, which should also put emphasis on insurance covers for small-scale farm crops, traders and cooperative societies, to promote the national economy and improve people’s living standards,” said Dr Saqwale. He said TIRA always encourages insurers to innovatively introduce new and affordable insurance products to all people, noting that there is good progress for some insurers have already innovated various products, including transport insurance whereby a passenger can pay as low as 200/- premium when on journey. “We are certain that if every Tanzanian is capable to pay for at least one of the insurance products, we will have been played multiple roles at a time. The person will be contributing to the national economy in the sense that the money collected will be injected into other development projects and if the insurance is for business, one will be improving the living standard while confidently expanding the business,” said Dr Saqwale. Dr Bashiru commended TIRA for the proposal and asked the authority to submit the priority areas, saying the suggestion has come at the right time as the party is about to embark on the new manifesto writing next month. He said insurance cover was among the key issues because it was the source of capital accumulation for the government, private institutions and individuals. “However, insuring all government properties at once is somehow difficult. We can start with few areas that indeed touch the lives of many Tanzanians. “We will go step by step until we cover all areas. I appreciate your idea and promise that it will be part of the manifesto’s content once the details are well researched and written for the battement of all Tanzanians,” said Dr Ally. The party’s chief executive admitted that there more important areas that needed immediate insurance covers, including national food granaries. He proposed that crop insurance covers be among TIRA priorities. TIRA Senior Researcher Dr Emmanuel Lupilya told the ‘Sunday News’ on the sidelines of the meeting that the authority is on the process of empowering the state owned National Insurance Corporation to serve big clients—especially development projects. He said TIRA in collaboration with other stakeholders, including the Insurance Institute of Tanzania (IIT) have started knowledge sharpening training to domestic insurers to enable them offer international standard services.