THE government says plans are afoot to amend the Tanzania Investment Act of 1997 that established the Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC). The amendments are meant to improve the operations and activities being conducted by TIC, especially on creating and sustaining ever-increasing investment flows and create a competitive investment environment that promotes Tanzania as a prime investment destination. Addressing a press conference in the city yesterday, TIC Executive Director, Mr Godfrey Mwambe, said the amendments will also enable the centre to handle investment projects on oil, gas and hazardous chemical sectors that are excluded from the current law. He said currently, all investments on the three sectors are handled by the Ministry of Minerals. “Apparently, TIC is under the Prime Minister’s Office and our proposals have been submitted there and I will be happy if all the amendments will be approved by parliament,” he said, adding that they had already submitted their draft on areas that need to be amended. The current law provides that a project of minimum fixed investment cost at least 100,000 US dollars for projects which are wholly owned by Tanzanians and 500,000 US dollars for projects which are wholly owned by foreign investors or if a joint venture. But there are some investors who do not meet the minimum fixed budget. “We have considered the presence of investors who are unable to meet the minimum fixed investment cost, so if the proposed draft will be approved, then all investments in the country will start to be registered by TIC regardless of their cost,” he said. Mr Mwambe is optimistic that having TIC under the PMO will smoothen its operations, a move that also guarantees timely delivery. In so doing, TIC established the One Stop Facilitation Centre whereby investors are assisted to obtain various permits, licences and approvals through one window. The one stop facilitation centre at TIC comprises government officers from various institutions purposely, to enable investors get all services without moving from one office to another. Institutions that have its officers at TIC offices include Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Immigration Department, Tanzania Bureau of Standard (TBS), Tanesco, National Environment Management Council (Nemc), Business Registrations and Licensing Agency (Brela), National Identification Authority (Nida), Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Osha), Land officers, Employment and Labour as well as officers from the Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA).