LAWMAKERS at the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) have urged partner states to duly remit their financial obligations, to address the financial crisis that has hit the EAC Secretariat. The legislators now want the six member states to start submitting their contributions in a ‘timely manner and fashion’ to resolve the dire financial crisis that has marred the economic bloc. Speaking during the ongoing third meeting of EALA’s second session here on Tuesday evening, Ugandan lawmaker Susan Nakawuki urged the Council of Ministers to direct partner states to remit their current and previous dues by end of this month. She further stressed that the assembly ought to be updated on EAC’s state of finances of the EAC by the next sitting in February, 2019. Ms Nakawuki decried the lack of adequate finances, noting that EALA members and staff were headed for the December festive season without their December salaries, a state she termed as unacceptable. The legislator said the matter of a sustainable funding mechanism was critical and that all options should be explored to ensure the Community remained stable. “It is heart-wrenching that six months down the road, partner states are not complying with our own financial rules and regulations. Predictable funding is necessary,” she said. Ms Nakawuki noted that there was a significant funding gap between the planned budget and actual remissions – which interferes with the planned activities. “As we talk, the Community has received only 35 per cent of the funds from the partner states as at mid Financial Year,” said the legislator. Available statistics indicate that all six partner states have to contribute $8.3mn/- However, Kenya has remitted 80 per cent of the said amount, followed by Uganda at 53 and Tanzania at 52 per cent. Rwanda has contributed 25 per cent of the total contribution while Burundi is yet to contribute anything this financial year. “Burundi has not contributed anything in this current Financial Year other than reducing the previous arrears by remitting $1mn/- to the EAC coffers… the country thus has an outstanding amount of $15mn/- owed to the Community while the Republic of South Sudan is yet to remit dues for the current Financial Year,” she told the third meeting of EALA’s second session. In her contribution, Tanzania’s Maryam Ussi stressed the need for stable remittances, saying the Assembly’s statutory mandate of legislation, oversight and representation was threatened due to the dire financial situation. The legislator called for the issue of zero increment to be addressed. On her part, Fancy Nkuhi, also from Tanzania, called for direct remission of funds by the Partner States’ Parliaments to EALA. “Let us borrow the model that is in place in the Parliament of Uganda which directly remits the Assembly’s portion to its coffers,” she suggested. In his response on behalf of the council of ministers, Tanzania’s Deputy Minister for EAC affairs, Dr Damas Ndumbaro, noted that all partner states were obliged to contribute fully and reiterated that the Council of Ministers was committed to discharging its duties to ensure total compliance.