YOUNG Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera said he could have resigned on Friday night due to failure of the club’s management to sign players he wanted. Yanga fought hard to claim their 14th victory of the season after downing Ruvu Shooting 3-2 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Sunday afternoon. The triumph enabled Yanga to continue topping the league pile with 44 points, four points above second placed Azam FC who have so far collected 40 points. Third placed Simba will be in action tomorrow hosting KMC at the National Stadium in the city after a long period league absence due to their CAF Champions League assignments. As it stand, Yanga have scored 32 goals, conceding 11 goals with three games remaining against African Lyon, Mbeya City and Azam respectively before winding up the first phase of the season. At a post-match press briefing, Zahera said if it was not the love and pride he has at Yanga, he was ready to quit the club on Friday. “Four days before the closure of the mini-transfer window, I talked with the team’s Chairman of Registration Committee Hussein Nyika about the progress of the four players I recommended to be signed this period and he assured me that everything was going well,” Zahera said. He added: “On Friday night just two hours before the deadline of the transfer window, he (Nyika) called me and said the deal to get the intended players had paralysed. I was totally confused and ready to leave the team in their (management) hands.” According to him, the four players he was eyeing include two strikers from Ghana and Mozambique, a goalkeeper from Kenya and another player from Mwadui FC. Commenting on the match itself, Zahera said his team played below par such that the victory came due to God’s grace. “Of all the matches we have played this season, I can say today we played poorly and no impact I have observed from today’s (Sunday) game.” he said. He continued that his side was weak tactically, mentally and physically while insisting that all the three goals they netted were as a result experience from his senior players. On his part, Ruvu Shooting coach Abdulmutik Haji said he was pleased with the performance from his team despite giving it away in the injury time. “We had a good game but in the end, we lost. We need to improve for the other upcoming league games,” he said. Meanwhile, Alexander Sanga reports from Mwanza that Alliance FC Assistant Coach, Kessy Mziray has applauded his players commitment that helped the team claim a 2-0 victory over Biashara United at the Nyamagana stadium on Sunday. Alliance FC goals were netted by Sammer Vicent in the 55th minute and Michael Chinedu in the 67th minute. Speaking after the match, Kessy said his team played well especially in the second half and his players properly followed his instructions. He further added that their opponents also played a good game because they were also attacking and creating a lot of scoring opportunities. According to him, he now focuses on winning their remaining matches in the ongoing premier league so as to finish in good position. Kessy called upon the team’s fans in Mwanza to continue supporting their team with a wholeheartedly support. Alliance FC who are sponsored by GF trucks are now placed 17 after gathering 16 points in the ongoing Premier League standings. They have won four matches against Kinondoni Municipal Council by 2-1, they have also beaten Mtibwa Sugar and Singida united by 1-0 all the matches won at Nyamagana Stadium. They have lost nine and drawn four matches. Alliance FC have netted nine and conceded twenty three goals. Biashara Mara assistant coach Omary Madenge said his players in defence position made mistakes which allowed their opponents to score the goals.