THE decision by President John Magufuli to order pension funds to revert to the old calculation formula for retirement benefits has been hailed by trade unions and other stakeholders, saying it has restored the hope of Tanzanian workers. They said that the decision has come at the right time as many workers were not happy with the new formula. Speaking to the ‘Daily News,’ the President of the Trade Union Congress of Tanzania (TUCTA), Mr Tumaini Nyamhokya said Dr Magufuli’s decision has proved the government’s commitment to address challenges that workers are facing. “He has done exactly what we wanted; his decision has given us an opportunity to meet again with the minister responsible to discuss the regulations that were not in favour of our interest,” he said in a telephone interview. He explained that TUCTA will continue to cooperate with President Magufuli and the entire government on improving contents of regulations that have been complained about for a long time. Former CCM Vice-Chairman, Pius Msekwa has poured praises on President Magufuli for intervening into the subject, saying what he did was indeed a wise decision. “President Magufuli has made a lot of wise decisions since he assumed the highest leadership office in the country and what he did yesterday is the continuation of his spirit of making wise decisions for the public,” he said. The former Speaker of the National Assembly and first CCM Executive Secretary said leaders should always make decisions that resolve people’s  problems, adding, “The decision made by the President has helped to resolve the problem.” “Frankly speaking, this was a problem and each one of us noted that it was a problem and very unfortunately despite the complaints from workers no one listened until today (yesterday)’s intervention by the President,” Mzee Msekwa added. Asked whether by the directives of the President the new laws on social security funds were now put on hold, Mr Msekwa replied, “No, the new laws have not been put on hold, what has been suspended is the regulation.” His views were seconded by the Secretary-General of Tanzania Union of Government and Health Employees (TUGHE), Heri  Mkunda, who said Dr Magufuli is concerned with demands of the workers. Mr Mkunda said, “This has been workers’ outcry for a long time; we tried to challenge the regulations at various stages but no changes were made until Dr Magufuli decided to intervene”. He went on to commend that the spirit that workers have shown should be maintained. Dr Magufuli’s decision also impressed some academicians, as the Senior lecturer of economics at the State University of Zanzibar (SUZA) Prof Haji Semboja said Dr Magufuli’s intervention was vital and his decision has come at the right time. He has acted well and I would expect that from him, at least the fear among working class has been allayed. Meanwhile, PIUS RUGONZIBWA reports that Workers Unions in Mwanza yesterday staged peaceful procession in support of President John Magufuli’s decision on retirees’ pensions calculation formula. The processions took place yesterday and were received by the Mwanza Regional Commissioner John Mongela who joined the workers to express gratitude to the President. Mongela said the procession, apart from congratulating the President, also portrayed that there was freedom of association and speech contrary to some of the critics who accuse the State on baseless allegations. Trade Union Congress of Tanzania Regional Chairman Yusuf Simbaulanga and the affiliated unions said the stance of the President over the saga has boosted workers’ morale which was almost diminishing before it was halted today. Other messages came from the National Chairman of the CCM Youth wing (UV-CCM) Kheri James who said President Magufuli’s decision has come at the right time when the hopes of the retirees were also shattered by the newly introduced formula. “This shows the President is pro-people and is a leader who values his countrymen including workers. The formula saga was about to disrupt peace if no intervention was quickly made like what the President has done today,” he said.