ENERGY Minister, Dr Medard Kalemani, has commissioned an electricity project at Iparamasa in Chato district, causing delightful sentiments from the area residents. The event took place on Friday in Geita region as a part of the minister’s tour which aimed at inspecting the implementation of Rural Energy Agency (REA) projects. While speaking to the village residents, Dr Kalemani urged them to make good use of the electricity to bring development to the area by among other things establishing small cereal mill machines and welding. “The generated capacity of electricity is enough to cater for industrial use…you should therefore make use of the opportunity to improve your lives,” said Dr Kalemani. He also called upon the residents who had not yet paid for installation fees to do so because power is a basic necessity in their lives. Dr Kalemani advised those consuming small amounts of power to employ special devices commonly known in Kiwashili as ‘Umeme Tayari’ (UMETA) when wiring their houses to overcome unnecessary costs. The minister issued 50 UMETA devices to the elderly and a few people who cannot afford the cost of wiring their homes. “In line to the 250 UMETA devices which will be issued to people during switching exercise in different areas, I promise as the leader of this constituency that I will distribute 50 more devices free of charge to the elderly and people who can’t afford the cost of installation,” noted the minister. He further revealed that seven large transformers will be installed in the district to be able to suffice the operations of small miners so that they can enjoy uninterrupted operations. Geita Regional Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) Manager, Eng Joachim Ruweta observed that a total of 331 customers have been connected with electricity services in Chato district. According to Eng Ruweta, among the people who are connected include 16 customers come from Iparamasa Village. “Currently, a total of 36 people from the village have paid to have access to the service, whereby 16 houses have already been connected and the exercise is still on going,” said Eng Ruweta.