THE government yesterday allayed fears on possible volcanic eruption of Oldoinyo Lengai Mountain, dismissing the recent reports by a section of international media as baseless and unfounded. The Geological Survey of Tanzania (GST) issued a statement here, playing down the likelihood of eruption on the Maasai revered ‘Mountain of God’. The government agency responsible for acquisition and storage of geoscientific data said in the recent past there had been a team of geoscientists coordinating research and undertaking geo studies on the mountain to ascertain the likelihood of the volcanic eruption. “Unfortunately, some of the reports that the scientists disseminated were neither official nor GST authorised as far as the studies were concerned,” the statement said. The government agency regretted the alleged spread of the information to the public, terming them “Baseless and unfounded.” “The reports have caused unnecessary panic to the public,” read the statement. The agency, however, cautioned residents living on the mountain’s foothills to take precautionary measures in the likelihood of the eruption. It advised residents to move 50 kilometres off the mountain should they experience any tremors. “This remains an active volcano, we therefore urge the residents to stay away from Oldoinyo Lengai.” GST also warned residents against putting up structures like houses and barns for livestock, saying the mountain emits toxic gases which can’t be seen by the naked eye. Available records show that the ‘Mountain of God’ first erupted 1883. It then had a series of volcanic activities for 15 years until the last and recent eruption which was recorded in 2013. Elevated at 3,188 metres, Ol Doinyo Lengai towers over the southern shore of Lake Natron near the village of Engare Sero in Tanzania’s Rift Valley. The mountain is also an attraction for tourists visiting Tanzania, lying on the Ngorongoro Lengai UNESCO Global Geopark. Researchers positioned five sensors around the volcano in 2016 to monitor its activity and risk of eruption and six months ago recorded data showing parts of the volcano were lifting upwards. The ‘Mountain of God’ sits less than 70 miles from where footprints left by human ancestors 3.6 million years ago were found. In 2007, the Mountain belched out a plume of ash that extended at least 11 miles downward, leaving lava running down the north and west flanks ignited burn scars that were visible from space. The volcanic activity in the mountain caused daily earth tremors in Kenya and Tanzania for a week, the strongest tremor measuring 6.0 on the Richter scale. According to Geologists, the sudden increase of tremors was indicative of the movement of magma through the Ol Doinyo Lengai.