MOST prices of food stuff in some Dar es Salaam markets have remained unchanged despite of end year festive season. The ‘Daily News’ spot survey at Tandale and Kisutu markets showed that despite people shopping at eleventh hours on the eve of Christmas prices remained intact for most items. The survey revealed that at Kisutu Market price of chicken stagnated between 6,000/- and 6,5 00/- a bird backed by oversupply which was experienced since last month. Kisutu Market Cereal Trader Masoud Gasper said whole sale price for rice remained at 150,000/- for 100 kilogramme sack while retail was 210,000/- a sack. “We are buying our supply at Tandale Grain Market. The prices are the same for some time now…Christmas failed to change the price upward,” Mr Gasper said. He said despite prices to stagnate customers turnover was still low unlike previous Christmas. “Even the trend of customers is decreasing in this endyear festive season compared to the last year despite price stabilization,” he said. He further noted that few days before Christmas he bought 20 sacks of rice from Tandale and until a day before Christ born-day he remained with some two sacks which was unlikely compared to previous year. “Under normal circumstances I could have sold those bags before Christmas and restock my store,” Mr Gasper told the ‘Daily News’. Kisutu Market Vice-Chairman Laurent Magali said the number of customers shopping at the market almost remain the same prior to this and last Christmas. “It is common to have many shoppers during endyear celebration, but last and this year the number of customers is as same as in normal working days,” he said. The Chairman of Kisutu Market Zuberi Luono, a poultry trader, said even the demand of chicken in this Christmas holiday remained the same as in normal working days. The chairman said the price of a local chicken sold between 12,000/- to 15,000/- for less than 2kg while 3kg goes for 20,000/-. He said the price of broiler chickens remained constant at 6,5 00/- a bird. A shopper Helen Mkilima, commented that low number of customers may be tied at low liquidity level in the economy.