VICE-PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has underscored the need to enhance proper use of Kiswahili language, which is fast growing globally. The VP made the remark here yesterday as she graced the opening of the Global Association for the Promotion of Swahili’s (CHAUKIDU) fourth conference. She said while the language was being recognised in many countries, some people at home, including journalists through their media outlets, were using inappropriate words, threatening the future of official Kiswahili. "Everyone here should ensure that the official language with acceptable words is protected and sustained for people—our children and foreigners—to pick-up and speak the standard language," said Ms Hassan at the opening ceremony of the conference. She said President John Magufuli is committed to promote Kiswahili, urging Swahili researchers, students, journalists, artists, writers, publishers, tourist officials, institutions and all other Swahili stakeholders to speak and promote the standard language and its culture. The Vice-President said fluent Kiswahili is good, noting that some leaders and media outlets were spoiling the language. She cited some incorrect words with correct words in bracket wakilisha (wasilisha), mwisho wa siku (mwishowe/hatmaye), uwepo (kuwepo), mashule (shule), masaa/lisaa (saa), mkaka (kaka), pelekea (sababisha), wahanga (waathirika) and tiyari (tayari). Participants—including experts, lecture, students and users from Poland, UK, US, Egypt, Rwanda, Burundi, Kenya, Uganda and the host Tanzania—to the conference at the State University of Zanzibar (SUZA) School of Kiswahili and Foreign Languages Hall, also heard the union vice president urging them to innovatively promote the language by including it in their curricular. She said: “We should be proud of the growing number of Kiswahili students across the world and Kiswahili is now among the three widely spoken languages in Africa, competing with Kihausa and Arabic. Globally, Kiswahili is among ten widely spoken languages…use the opportunity for our development; unity, tradition and culture.” She said there is a lot to talk about Kiswahili and its link to social, economic and political development as well as the welfare of people, arguing that while Kiswahili is the national language in Tanzania, DRC and Kenya, other countries are eyeing it as their national language as well. Zanzibar Minister for Education and Vocational Training, Riziki Pembe Juma said there are still some people in Tanzania with wrong perception that learning Kiswahili and speaking proper Kiswahili is backwardness. “The world is proving them wrong. Let us educate our children at home and schools about the benefits of Kiswahili to them and the nation,” she said.