THE Social Security Regulatory Authority (SSRA) said yesterday that the process to amend the pensions’ law was participatory and that it involved all relevant stakeholders before its approval. The Public Service Social Security Act, 2018, which was signed into law earlier this year, has come under criticism of few people, with some analysts saying under it, one will only receive 25 per cent as lump sum payment upon retirement. Responding to some of the claims that have been raised against the law during the past few months, the SSRA Head of Legal Affairs, Mr Onorius Njole said the amendments were only effected after a thorough consultation with all relevant stakeholders. “We received massive inputs…. It was realised that the size of the benefits issued were more than the actual size of pension funds….We had to look for options…. We should have either increased the amount of members’ contributions or decrease the benefit amounts if we were to make the sector sustainable,” he told journalists who sought SSRA’s voice on a number of issues relating to the recently endorsed pension funds law at the weekend. According to the SSRA Director General, Ms Irene Isaka, the authority has held a total of 47 meetings with pension funds’ stakeholders since 2013, during which period they deliberated on the weaknesses within the laws governing the sector and proposed the amendments. “We involved the government, employers and workers’ associations during the deliberations,” she said. Later, she said the proposed amendments were taken to the responsible ministry where collection of stakeholders’ views was also taken seriously. “A proposal had to be written and you cannot submit such a serious proposal without including the names of people who were involved in the process,” she said. According to Mr Njole, at one point employers went to the extent of proposing that a pensioners’ salary should be calculated basing on the average of one’s salaries received during the entire employment period. “After a thorough analysis, we came to realise that buying that idea would significantly reduce a pensioner’s monthly pay….That was how we arrived on a provision that one should be paid 72.5 per cent of his/her salary as paid during one of the last three months of employment,” he said. After serious deliberations at SSRA level and at the ministry, the draft law was taken to Parliament where it was also exposed to close scrutiny by various stakeholders, including employers and employees’ associations as well as legislators. Even after the law was endorsed, experts kept seeking stakeholders’ views during the preparation of regulations to operationalise the law. “In short, the process was very participatory. However, we believe that the amendments are so massive that they cannot be easily accepted by everyone,” he said.