TANZANIANS now have reason to trust drugs certified by Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), which the World Health Organisation (WHO) has elevated to maturity level three regulators. This is the second position after Level Four, which is the highest class of WHO categorised authorities that regulate medicines across the world. “This elevation means that Tanzanians are assured of quality, safe and efficient TFDA- certified drugs,” Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu said while receiving a letter of TFDA recognition from WHO in Dar es Salaam. TFDA managed to ascend to level three having certified the UN health agency with improved systems for checking the drug quality. The Tanzanian food and drugs regulator becomes the first authority in Africa to acquire the level three status, which only 30 per cent of all regulators worldwide have acquired. Ms Mwalimu challenged TFDA to start working towards the highest maturity level four category to match authorities in the developed world like the US, Australia, Canada and others. She explained that efforts to improve the authority’s drugs control systems started over the years, only to ensure that Tanzanians consume medicines that work efficiently to treat the diseases. “It’s the fact that if medicines don’t cure due to inefficiency, Tanzanians will spend more on buying drugs, subjecting them to poverty,” she argued. WHO Country Representative Dr Tigest Ketsela elaborated that the assessment of regulatory authorities is based on the ‘Global Benchmarking Tool’ which is an evaluation tool that checks regulatory functions—product registration, post market surveillance and others to establish their level of maturity. After the country undergoes assessment with the WHO Global Benchmarking Tool (GBT), an Institutional Development Plan (IDP) is developed to build on strengths and address areas for improvement. According to the WHO global benchmarking, the national medicines regulatory agencies are classified into four maturity levels depending on their ability to perform the required regulatory functions. Level one means the agency has some elements of regulatory system existing whereas level two is for national regulatory systems that partially perform essential regulatory functions. Level three means the agency has stable, well-functioning and integrates regulatory system and the highest level four requires the regulatory system to operate at advanced level.