TANZANIANS will tomorrow join the rest of the world to celebrate the New Year 2019, with the lowest inflation rate in East Africa. Finance and Planning Minister Dr Philip Mpango said Tanzania outperformed its economic competitors— Kenya and Uganda—in the East African region. He said between July and November, 2018, the country’s inflation rate dropped by three per cent compared to 4.3 per cent recorded during the corresponding period in 2017/2018 fiscal year. Speaking at a news conference here yesterday, Dr Mpango said Uganda and Kenya’s inflation rates stood at 3.3 and 4.8 per cent, respectively. “Tanzania’s lowest inflation rate was attributed to availability of enough food reserve of about 15.9 million tonnes—an equivalent of 120 per cent against the required demand of 13.3 million tonnes during that period,’’ said the minister, adding that food inflation rate stood at two per cent as of November 2018, compared to 7.9 per cent during the corresponding period in 2017. Other reasons for the low inflation, according to the minister, were the stability of fuel prices in the world market and proper implementation of budget and financial policies. Dr Mpango further reiterated that Tanzania economy which now grows at seven per cent remains among Africa’s top five countries whose economies continued to grow during the first half of 2018. Other countries and their growth percentages in brackets are Ethiopia (8.5), Ivory Coast (7.4), Rwanda (7.2) and Senegal (7.0). “This pace of economic growth has improved the living standards of our people, especially those who managed to get various employment opportunities in various economic sectors that grew rapidly including roads and railway construction, expansion of several airports and ports, availability of markets for food crops, construction of several factories as well as financial services and growth in the communication sector,’’ he insisted. Other indicators of improved living standards, according to Dr Mpango, were ownership of consumer durables, assets and decent housing, among others. On the country’s currency, Dr Mpango said the shilling received the modest depreciation against the US dollar, insisting however that the Tanzanian shilling remains strong. “The shilling depreciated against the US dollar by 1.8 per cent between July and November 2018, which was a modest decrease which could not cause the decline of the country’s currency,” he said. The minister attributed the shilling stability to proper supervision of the country’s financial policy, revenue collection and expenditure, use of natural gas in power production and establishment of local industries that can produce products that were previously imported. Dr Mpango said the country has enough reserve of foreign currency and that by November 2018, the foreign reserve was 5,079 million US dollars, which is enough to purchase all products from outside the country for the next five months. He added that the banking sector equally improved, with 61 commercial banks and other financial institutions operating under the supervision of the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) as of September 2018. “Out of the total 61 financial institutions, there were 52 banks with 884 branches countrywide,” he said.