THE government has allocated 908bn/- in the fiscal year 2018/19, an increase of 63.1 per cent for further strengthening the construction of all roads across the country. The Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Mr Isack Kamwelwe said this here while officiating a two-day road stakeholders meeting attended by policymakers, law enforcement officers, road users, municipal, district councils and municipal directors, Tanzania Roads Agency (TANROADS) and Tanzania Rural and Urban roads Agency Managers. He said the funds which were released by the government as continuity of the government efforts in improving road networks in the country, have increased from 557.9bn/- in 2015/16 to 908bn/- in 2018/19 financial year. “86 per cent of both highway and regional roads are in good condition, and the remaining ones are continuously improved and strengthened,” he said, adding that the achievement gained by road infrastructure in the country is based on the government decision to increase the construction budget and construction of new roads, opening up economic opportunities in the country. He said due to increase of the construction budget in the country, tarmac road network increased from 9,988.7 kilometres in 2015/16 to 12,453.0 kilometres in 2017/18. “This became possible due to the efforts made by the fifth phase government to ensure that roads are expanded to stimulate sustainable industrial economy,” he explained. He urged citizens, consumers and road supervisors to protect road infrastructures for the benefit of the current and future generations, and cautioned freight transporters to avoid carrying loads that exceed the required weight, which is against the law. He also said his ministry through the Roads Fund, TANROADs, Regional Administration and Local Government through TARULA should continue to integrate both regional and rural areas for the opening of roads in the areas of investment opportunities. He said the implementation report indicates that there are areas in the country proposed by the government for industrial investment, which in the 2018/19 Local Government Budget, the budget of 2bn/- has been allocated for the feasibility study of road projects in the country and industrial areas in various districts in the country. He ordered all institutions to manage and supervise the construction of roads and bridges carefully and ensure their functions are carried out based on the acceptable standards in terms of contracts and bring productivity for the government. Speaking at the same meeting, the Roads Fund Board Chairman, Mr Joseph Haule said his fund had played a major role in the collection of roads revenue as it was promised in the CCM election manifesto. “Our goal is to ensure that road construction contributes to the country’s economy and eliminates poverty from ordinary citizens,” he said, adding that his board has been a major catalyst for the change in the construction industry in the country.