THE government will from January 2019 officially roll out the Electronic Tax Stamp (ETS) system to all hard liquor and cigarettes countrywide. Initially scheduled to have been introduced on September 1, this year, the new system is intended to enable the government obtain industrial production data on a timely basis using modern technology. “The new stamps will start being used on January 1, 2019. This new system will allow the government to use modern technology in obtaining data on a timely basis from manufacturers,” said Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) Commissioner General Mr Charles Kichere. Speaking after touring Nyati Spiritz Limited and Tanzania Cigarette Company, he said that the new system intends to curb revenue leakages and make it possible to determine in advance the amount of excise duty, VAT and income taxes to be paid. According to the Commissioner General, the system will address challenges associated with the use of fake paper. He reiterated that the system will bring benefits to manufacturers as well as to taxpayers and consumers - by levelling the playing field among competitors, protecting product brand integrity and permitting consumer verification of products found in the market. The new system was announced by the Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango when tabling the 2018/19 national budget estimates in parliament. Expounding further, he said ETS will be administered under the Electronic Stamps Regulations-2018 published in the Government Notice no. 16 on February 2, 2018. Among other things, the Regulations provide for expansion of the system’s coverage from traditional excisable goods like cigarettes, wines, spirits, liqueurs, cordials (spirits), beers, mineral waters, juices and other beverages to music and film products namely CDs and DVDs. Nyati Spiritz Limited Group Chief Executive Officer, Ms Rupa Suchak described it as a positive move that should bring in more revenue for the government from genuine liquor producers, while also restricting cheap illicit liquor. “We support the government in the introduction of electronic tax stamps to replace the current paper tax stamp system that has been abused by counterfeiters to flood the market with illicit drinks,” she noted. ETS Manager, George Haule, said in phase I the system will be rolled out in hard liquor and cigarettes companies whilst beverages will be covered in phase II. Mr Haule said the delay to roll out the system was due to pricing issues in which they have agreed with the Swiss firm which won a tender to roll out ETS to charge 20 US dollars per 1,000 stamps.