LOCAL governments in Tanzania Mainland have the responsibility to utilize and manage financial resources in providing services to the respective communities to improve the daily lives of citizens in councils, cities and municipalities. Financial management is a catalyst for development in local government. In the recent past, Tanzania has witnessed persistent challenges in financial management and accounting for public funds in local government as evidenced by poor audit rating from the Controller and Auditor General. Despite the fact everything is pointing to the fact that the situation is improving. The need to ensure local governments have the capacity to manage public fund is the duty of not only the government but also related professional associations such as Tanzania Association of Accountants (TAA). Recognizing the importance of good governance and accountability in the local government operations. TAA in collaborations with the Prime Minister’s Office (TAMISEMI) and other launched the first ever Local Government and Accountability Conference in 2017 in Dodoma. Over the past two years these seminars have been organized in collaboration with the President’s Office- Regional Administration and Local Government (TAMISEMI), Ministry of Finance and Planning and the National Audit Office. However TAA has been closely working with other esteemed government institutions such as PCCB, PPRA and Ethics Secretariat with the view to fostering a better understanding by local government leaders on the business carried out by these accountability institutions as well as providing on the spot responses to some of the challenges that local government face. The Local Government Accountability conference 2018 was well received by not only in the government circles but also by important players in the private sector as evidenced by the support received from CRDB Bank, Sanlam, Watumishi Housing and Clouds Media. Tanzania Association of Accountants (TAA) is a professional voluntary Accountancy Association which was registered in, 1983 under the Societies Ordinance as a Member’s representative body of all professional Accountant(s) and aspiring Accountant(s) in Tanzania. The main objectives of the association are to promote the Accountancy profession in the country. TAA envisioned to become “a world class professional accountancy institution”; and has a mission to provide services to and on behalf of its Members in various sectors aimed at facilitating their professional and social development while promoting public confidence in the services provided. Transparency and accountability in financial management are a key pillar in local government governance and in particular in building and protecting people’s loyalty to achieving the goals of our country in eliminating poverty. The conference has been a deliberate move to provide a networking platform for senior local government leaders, building awareness and understanding of how accountability of the local government contributes to the overall empowerment and well beings of the citizen. TAA Chairman, Dr Fred Msemwa said the Accountability Conference is an annual event which is purposely conducted to build the capacity of the middle level- and senior officials in the local government authorities in the key areas including financial management, public audit, risk management, procurement, ethics and other contemporary issues in local government practice. Dr Msemwa said the networking opportunity and papers presented by officials from CAG Office, PCCB, IAG, PPRA, Ethics Secretariat, TAMISEMI and other expert s constitute a great help in providing guidance and experience that participants in their daily activities in their councils. On the other hand he said this is a great opportunity to share experience with other stakeholders from local governments with a view to not only attaining the requisite professional development but also providing better services to the people. “We as Accountants have a great responsibility for the community we serve. Honesty and transparency should be our main pillars in our practice. Practicing as accountants is a great opportunity and is based on the great faith given to us by Tanzanian public. We should treasure this privilege with all our strengths and humbleness,” emphasized Dr Msemwa. Speaking during the opening of the seminar the Accountant General of the Republic United of Tanzania Francis Mwakipalila thanked Municipalities for attending the seminar, he said the local government is slowly playing and an  important part in contributing towards improvement of accountability and service delivery in our local government authorities. Mwakipalila said his ambition is to see leaders are learning, discussing and sharing experiences of the best ways that can enable them to effectively implement roles in line with the laws, regulations and regulations of the country. He also commended TAA for its creativity in launching this annual conference. “Before I come here, the TAA leadership has informed that despite the good progress made by local government in improving service delivery, they still face myriad challenges that call for continued education and exchange of experience,” Hon. Mwakipalila explained. He added, there were some issues that require direct responses from the relevant leaders in the relevant ministries. Also He said he hoped that the TAA would take back the feedback from the seminar and fully work for the benefit of the people. Mwakipalila insisted that the participants should listen carefully to Seminar facilitator, contribute to constructive arguments, and get maximum benefit out of the 2018 accountability conference. This seminar included Senior officials from Local Government Authorities (LGA’s) in Tanzania Mainland were Mayors/Chairpersons, Executive Directors, Treasures, Chief Internal Auditors and Procurement Officers. The 2018 conference was attended by distinguished leaders from 185 Municipalities from Tanzania mainland. Through the seminar, local government leaders have had a tremendous impact on the implementation of their daily roles for the people. Local Governments in Tanzania are required to provide better social and economic services to the people, implementing development activities aimed at improving social and economic services in local government areas, developing the Government’s Public Implementation Policy on Politics, Finance, Governance and Relationships between the Central Government and the Local Government, Collecting and Managing Internal Revenue, and overseeing an optimal utilization of public funds in their areas with a view to bringing social and economic development to the people. In this year’s seminar we the participants resolve to have several resolutions which need attentions of stakeholders to address; ministries to consider issues of human resources deployment in time.