POLICE force has 16.2bn/- cash asset though uncollected from defiant drivers as fines over violation of various traffic offences. The money includes 15.3b/- fines that have outlived the official seven-day payment period and 812.88m/- is for fined within the prescribed seven days. Cheeky drivers violating traffic rules are subjected to traffic police fines which ought to be paid within seven days without penalties. Police Spokesman Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Ahmed Msangi, speaking to reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday, said the 16bn/- is accumulation of fines from offences committed from January to yesterday. “Most drivers have no tendency of paying their debts timely, we hereby implore them to ensure the money is paid as the law requires,” said the newly appointed spokesman. Inspector General of Police Simon Sirro has appointed the new spokesperson, replacing Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Barnabas Mwakalukwa who has been transferred to Coast region as Staff Officer of Police I. “This is a normal reshuffle that IGP Sirro has effected within the force,” said DCP Msangi, the Head of Human Crimes Unit within the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), prior to the new appointment. In the changes, Mtwara Regional Police Commander (RPC) DCP Lukas Mkondya has been transfered to police headquarters in the commission on criminal intelligence. DCP Mkondya has been replaced by ACP Blaus Chatanda who was the Staff Officer I of Police in Coast region. In other development, the police have insisted on the importance of adhering to the laws of the land especially during this period of the year-end festivals to maintain peace and harmony in the country. “We need to ensure peace and unity is maintained in the country. So it’s our call to every member of the society to cooperate with the police by reporting any incident that might destruct the prevailing peace,” he said. DCP Msangi assured that the police were well prepared to maintain security and discipline the few people bent on violating the laws of the land.