PRESIDENT John Pombe Magufuli on Sunday tasked the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to explore new ways and solutions of addressing tax evasion in the country. The President said the taxman was partly to blame for setting high standards in revenue collections, prompting some businessmen to dodge tax. “You are the cause of the problem here by setting the bar very high and as a result, some Tanzanians shun paying taxes,” remarked the President on Sunday shortly after laying a foundation stone for a 528bn/- water project in Kimnyak Ward in Arumeru District in Arusha Region. He said it was better to have a lower bar than a higher one, a move he said would encourage Tanzanians to pay taxes on time. According to President Magufuli, TRA was using old fashioned ways of revenue collections which resulted in tax evasion. “Instead of befriending the taxpayers you have become their enemies by sending law enforcers to arrest them; this is not the right way of doing it,” he remarked. Dr Magufuli further challenged the taxman and the ministry of finance and planning to create a level playing field in revenue collection. He tasked the two institutions to embark on educating the public on the right taxes that ought to be paid to the government. The President castigated TRA officials who imposed nuisance taxes under the guise of the ‘Hapa Kazi Tu’ slogan. “The government needs taxes for development, but that doesn’t imply collecting it in improper ways,” he cautioned. He accused some TRA officials who set high standards so as to solicit bribes from the unsuspecting businessmen once they fail to pay taxes. According to the President, such dishonest officials will be seriously dealt with.  On the other hand, the President appealed to small scale traders not to be used by operators of big businesses to evade taxes. Dr Magufuli pointed out that owners of big business stores used some small traders to avoid using Electronic Fiscal Devices (EFDs) and printing fake receipts. “I know of some owners of big shops and stores who distribute their merchandise to small traders to avoid paying taxes,” he said. Such a practice robs the government of taxes and revenues that could be spent on servicing loans. “The government gave you the freedom to work and operate comfortably; however, you should not abuse the freedom we have entrusted you with,” appealed the President. Earlier, Water and Irrigation Minister Professor Makame Mbarawa told President Magufuli that the project will not only generate more liters of water to the city of Arusha, but also improve sanitation through a soft grant from the African Development Bank (AfDB). According to Professor Mbarawa, once it materialises in 2020, the project will see the Arusha Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (AUWSA) generate 200million liters a day, hence surpass the demand which currently stands at 94million liters a day. “Once it comes to fruition, the project will be capable of generating water four times more than the current capacity,” said the minister. The project is expected to address waste water and the sewerage drainage system by increasing an effluent removal network covering up to 276km from 46km, according to the minister. Previously, the project was planned to be completed by next year, but the time has been extended to 2020. The new scheme will see the number of beneficiaries double to 600,000, which means almost every person in the city will be served. It entails the construction of borehole pump stations, laying down of transmission main lines, drilling of wells and the construction of booster pump stations with storage tanks, power supply and water hammer facilities.