THE innocent, curious eyes of a baby  boy gazed at the mother as she narrated the story of her life and  the passion she held dear to her heart. Keenly listening and simultaneously trying to get mum to switch a bit of her attention to himself, the seven-month-old Yazzie literally glued himself to her. “I was just ten when I realized that I loved writing, and I experimented with it throughout the years,” explained Ms Nasikiwa Susie, a poetess and performing word artist who is associated with one of the networking companies in Tanzania. She recalls that it was when she turned 17 or 18 and was  doing her A levels at a school in Dar es Salaam that she started to toy with words -  to put it somewhat humourously. “If my memory serves me right,  the turning point was the boredom I felt when a teacher was trying to explain a concept that I found boring. A somewhat funny idea crossed my mind; I scribbled a few words, and voila! I wrote down my very first poem; by the time I was graduating I had 85 to 100 poems, ” she proudly  recalls. Suzie explained that her poems covered a vast spectrum of subjects, including her emotions and birds; plus just about anything else which she could express in the form of poetry. Initially, she  wrote poems for mere fun, not knowing that it would be elevated to a strong passion. When she started identifying herself as a writer, however, her parents were against it, characterizing it as a useless hobby not worth investing  one’s passion and time. “I was so madly in love with poetry that I wanted to enrol in a writing school, but my parents totally opposed the idea. They little knew that their objections fuelled my passion,” she remarked, adding: “I finally discovered my passion and I strived to polish skill as much as I could. I was conscious, however, that jotting down poems in notebooks  and reading them to myself would neither be exciting nor helpful. I wanted to broaden the scope by sharing them with other people, to entertain them and help change the world to be a better place but did not know where to start.” After completing her A level, the young lady joined a university college in Iringa to pursue a diploma course in Community Development. It is there where she was contacted by a lady whose first name she recalls as Neema, who was instrumental in ushering her into the world of poetry. She subsequently established that the lady met her mother at  the Small Industries Development Organisation (Sido) and during a chat, her mother discovered that Ms Neema was a poetess and spoken word artist;  something that delighted her. “My mom was like “Oh! So people can make something out of poetry in Tanzania?” The two exchanged contacts and subsequently communicated frequently. “We met when I returned to Dar es Salaam and she invited me to my first spoken word performance,” she said, adding: “Going to the open mike was a terrifying experience. Although I didn’t put up performances on my initial  visits, the more I attended the open mikes the more I felt the need to get on stage,” she recalls. Eventually she summoned enough courage to climb the stage with other performers, and did a performance on a Poem on Albino. “I don’t have the poem because I wrote it hurriedly on the very day I was going to perform and in the course of  nervousness I misplaced it somehow,” she recalls, adding: “There were no cheers of acknowledgement after I finished performing; it’s something that really shattered my heart, setting me to think that my poetry was stinking,” she posed briefly, and then continued the narration: “As I was leaving, I met a  famous writer whose identity I don’t recall at the parking lot and he was like ‘I really loved your poem’. I looked at him, thinking it was this guy  whose books I used to read as a kid. “When he told me that he loved my poem, he uplifted my spirits. I was like yes, I can do this thing and that was the beginning of my performing journey.” Since then her art has grown and is getting better in storytelling, imagery, but still faces the challenge of publishing her art work yet. “I have tried publishing a couple of times, but my manuscripts get rejected,” she recounts sorrowfully. Her first manuscript comprising 85 to 100 poems got lost after she gave it to a university professor who had the right connections and could help with editing  and get the manuscript published. She had another manuscript with about 80 poems, more of an anthology but  it was also rejected. Suzie submitted her poetry to journals and magazines;  a few accepted but most of them rejected. “This has taught me that I should keep on writing and one day someone will assess my poems, find them worthwhile  enough to be published and reach the society,” she further explained. Performing is quite a challenge in Tanzania, as most artists barely got paid, and sadly, people still do not understand the art of poetry. They love music but do not understand that music is a result of poetry. “We perform for the sake of creating an audience, a fan base. It is tough to  make ends meet since we do not get paid, but writing is a pleasure to us and the rejections don’t really disorient me,” she stated, adding: “I  earnestly hope that  a time will come when  poetry in Tanzania  will become more appreciated and will increase its fan base, as music  does. I also expect that in the near future my artwork will be paying me.” Recollecting her story on being a single mother and how she is faring, she said that when she was a child she knew the kind of lady she wanted to become  and she had a blueprint of when she  would get married and start her own family. As they say plans do not always work out the way we want them, as life plays its hand; directions might be changed, priorities might shift but in the end people are advised not to stop living, hoping and dreaming. “As a young woman I want to break barriers, and make my own identity. I don’t want other girls to experience  the challenges I am facing today at my age. For up to now, peer pressure is still an issue for me; so I have to  strive to uphold the principles and standards I cherish,” she stated. Motherhood is a blessing. “His eyes when he gazes at me with love and admiration with this kind of trust, his smile brings this immense joy to me, I would not exchange this feeling for anything.” “But being a single mother is the toughest experience I have had in my life. As much as it is tough it is also the easiest thing I have conquered and I am conquering. Every morning I wake up. I look forward to the next step my baby will make, just looking at him my heart explodes with joy,” she proudly exclaimed. Since she has been a mother, she has learned to be tough and not let obstacles block her way to what she wants to get. Being a single mother does not give you a leeway of what you want to do and what you must do. “The fact that the baby is there and there is no one else to assume your responsibilities makes it easier in conquering the challenges and taking care of the baby,” explained Ms Susie. No matter how strong one can be, doing everything that is supposed to be done by two individuals at some point surely brings a heavy load for the single parent. “The emotional distress of not having a partner sometimes catches up with me, but I find my ways to get away from it through my work. As when I was young I had a dream of being married before I had children, and I planned to have a baby in my 30s and not in my 20s,” she remarked. She furthermore explains: “A child is a blessing. I would encourage every young woman who gets pregnant outside marriage to have their babies and hold them with pride and not go for other options as it is the most fulfilling feeling a woman could ever have.” Having a relationship as a single mother at the moment is not Susie’s priority, she says, as she does not have time to entertain people, and plans to do so for the first two years of her child’s life. “I want to concentrate all my time, energy and emotions focused on him. It would have been different if I had a partner who was present, but since there is none, I don’t have to make it a priority or divide my attention to someone I barely know,” she stated. Putting the record straight, however, she still thinks that a single mother can have a relationship. “She just needs to be very careful with strict standards and principles as you have a child and do not have time to explore with just any random person.” What a single mother goes through has a lot of impact on a child. When the parent is sad or heartbroken, it will hinder how you act with your child and how your child views relationships and act when in relationship in the future, she remarks. And when it is time to get married, “I solely advise women not to leave their children behind with their grandparents, I believe that you can get married and start a new life, family with the husband and he can become a father figure to your child,” stated Susie. It doesn’t matter if you are a single mother, you can still have a good relationship and get married, and you can still go after what you want and make your goals and dreams a reality. “In the end, you deal with what life throws at you. Find ways to make better with any situation. I believe a point will come when my poetry will touch the lives of Tanzanians; I will be able to publish my poems and raise a gentleman. As a woman I would be able to stand strong and proud to tell my story of success,” she firmly stated.