DEMEANING aids will have no space in Tanzania, the government declared here yesterday. “We are not ready to embrace disparaging aids with stringent conditions, some dehumanizing, from foreign nations,” vowed Finance and Planning Minister Dr Philip Mpango. Dr Mpango said the country is now determined to strengthen her economic freedom through maximising domestic revenue collections and discouraging external funding that comes with intolerable conditions, some against the country’s morals. “The country is currently going through difficult moment because many countries that used to give us aid have withdrawn abruptly and the remaining few are attaching intolerable conditions that we cannot bow to,’’ said the minister. Dr Mpango noted with concern that time has come where some donor countries are shamelessly compelling Tanzania to embrace homosexuality as one of the conditions for aid. “Even goats don’t practice homosexuality. We, as the government, equivocally state that there is no way we can take aid on condition of approving Lesbian, Gay, bisexual, Transgender, and Intersex (LGBTI),” said the minister. Homosexual acts remain illegal in Tanzania and punishable by up to 30 years in prison. Minister Mpango was speaking barely a day after the European Parliament came up with a resolution, demanding Tanzania to address several issues on what they described as “Deteriorating human rights situation” in the country, among them, pushing for Tanzania to decriminalise homosexuality. “Parliament urges the EU and its Member States to make full use of the LGBT Toolkit to encourage third countries to decriminalise homosexuality, help reduce violence and discrimination and protect LGBTI human rights defenders,’’ read the document. Dr Mpango issued a swift rejoinder while speaking at the official closure of the three-day Government e-Payment Gateway GePG Annual Summit which attracted participants from the finance ministry and all service providers (SPs) from government departments and institutions. The minister said some countries were not happy seeing the government deploying the army in Mtwara region to deal with the cashew nut saga. “Some people say that we are discouraging investors when we put up measures to tighten loop-holes against smuggling of the country’s natural resources, including minerals,” argued the minister. He underscored the need for independence, adding that for the country to achieve its economic independence both central and local government authorities should invest in revenue collection. “All Tanzanians, wherever they are, should put the country ahead of anything…we need to collect more revenues particularly using the Government e-Payment Gateway,’’ he said. He urged public officials from all departments and institutions at the three-day summit to supervise the new system to boost the country’s revenues. “We need to say that enough is enough, and all of you should supervise this system to the best of your ability, because the nation needs to get out of donor dependence,’’ he said. Dr Mpango expressed optimism that in the next 2019/2020 fiscal year, he will put bold measures in place to table the budget that will be only depending on domestic sources. “I wish to make a declaration that we fully depend on ourselves and not donors, we can only depend on them when seeking for humanitarian assistance in case of any possible disasters,’’ he said.