MAINLAND representatives in CAF Champions League returned to full drills yesterday at the Boko Veteran grounds in Dar es Salaam to prepare for the first round, first leg match against Zambia’s Nkana FC in Kitwe on Friday. Simba, who pulverised Eswatini’s Mbabane Swallows with 8-1 whitewash, will face Nkana of Zambia in the first round of CAF Champions League and Head Coach, Patrick Aussems said there was no time to waste as they seek to sweep past Nkana. The Belgian is well aware of the tough task ahead and that the only way to overcome the challenge is to prepare effectively for the double header clash. Coach Aussems said immediately after landing in Dar es Salaam from Eswatini on Thursday that he believes he has a formidable squad comprising a bunch of talented players, a fact he said gives him confidence that the team will go further in the continental level race Meanwhile, hardly six day before Mtibwa Sugar take on Uganda’s KCCA FC in the first round of the CAF Confederation Cup, both sides have intensified their preparations for the match. Mtibwa Sugar, who jetted in Dar es Salaam on Thursday from Seychelles, went straight to their base in Turiani, Morogoro for the intensive drills ahead for next Saturday first leg against KCCA at the Star- Times Stadium Lugogo in Kampala. According to Mtibwa’s Director, Jamal Bayser, the team moved into camp yesterday and that they decided not to give their players some rest after the Seychelles journey, as they needed to be ready for the tough encounter against their Uganda opponents. KCCA, who are currently leading the Uganda League and have yet to feel the pinch of defeat, are also aware of the hurdle ahead and have started preparations for the match. The tax collectors will utilize their weekend’s league fixture against Ndejje University as part of preparations for Mtibwa Sugar’s tie. KCCA Coach, Mike Mutebi was quoted as saying that they will take the Ndejje match seriously despite the fact that the team is struggling in the relegation zone. He asked his players to go out and win the match confidently with a big scoring margin to gain confidence ahead of the CAF Confederation match. “It is a pre-cursor before we go to the continental assignment, so we want to go play well and win to give our players the morale and belief ahead of the CAF game,” he said. Mutebi also said his side will not underestimate their opponents Mtibwa Sugar, who had eliminated Seychelles’ Northern Dynamos in the preliminary round. Mtibwa Sugar set date with KCCA, who had received a bye to the next round. “We will not underestimate Mtibwa Sugar simply because people think it’s a small team, as you can realise that there are some big and well known teams that have already been dumped out, so there are no small teams at this level. As long as someone reaches there and realises what is on offer, they will put up everything in the line,” he said. Mtibwa Sugar eliminated the Seychelles side from the CAF tournament by 5-0 goals on aggregate after recording a 4-0 victory in the first leg held at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam two weeks ago and won 1-0 in the return leg in Mahe, Seychelles last Tuesday. However, Mutebi said KCCA have enough to overcome Mtibwa Sugar and that they are ready for the match as they always does for any match but the only difference is that Mtibwa’s match is big by all standards because it’s an international match. He said they are targeting to do well on continental level this time and they are going to be very serious. Mutebi is confident that his side can get a result and progress as they aim to better their performances from the last two campaigns at the continent where they reached the money group stages. The return leg will be held at the Azam Complex in Chamazi, Dar es Salaam on December 21st this year.