THE Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA) has tightened the noose on importers over local insurance cover on their imports, a year after the Tanzania Imports Insurance Portal becomes operational. TIRA’s Insurance Commissioner, Dr Baghayo Saqware, said that from yesterday, the authority started making close follow-ups, to ensure that importers abide by the law. The move comes after a honeymoon period of one year passed following the introduction of the insurance portal. “We think that one year is enough for importers to understand this system; over the past one year, we have conducted training sessions for all stakeholders, now we want them to effectively implement the legal requirement,” Dr Saqware said . The law requires local importers or local companies to cover their imports with locally registered insurance companies. Previously, the importers were insuring their imports with insurances in the country of origin, a situation which denied Tanzania millions of money in revenue. The Insurance Commissioner was speaking at the offices of the Tanzania Freight Forwarders Association (TAFFA) during which the authority partnered with the association to conduct a joint advocacy to motivate shippers to cover their imports locally. TAFFA President Stephen Ngatunga commended the government for coming up with the decision to introduce a system of enabling the shippers to use local insurances to cover their imports. “We hail the government for this move because for the past ten years, we have been calling for local insurances to cover the imports to enable the country earn more revenues to finance development projects,” Mr Ngatunga said. He stated that the importers were subjected to risks when they paid for insurance cover abroad because they were unlikely to be compensated in the event of disasters. “Many times when a disaster occurs, Tanzanians are subjected to complicated compensation processes, and sometimes they lose their rights,” he explained. He said in collaboration with the TIRA, the TAFFA had agreed to conduct a campaign to convince shippers go for local insurance cover, to avoid facing legal measures. He said the association would conduct media campaigns to educate and create awareness among its members and importers.