SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said his team’s last Saturday victory against Singida United helped to restore back winning mentality in the squad. Defending champions Simba hammered Singida United 3-0 at the National Stadium courtesy of goals from skipper John Bocco and Shiza Kichuya who netted a brace to enable Simba recover positively following their 3-2 loss to Mashujaa FC in Azam Sports Federation Cup tie last week. With the triumph, Simba remain third at the Mainland Premier League table with 33 points from 14 games, 17 points behind leaders Yanga and 7 points adrift second placed Azam FC respectively. Simba have so far scored 28 goals and conceded five goals which is the lowest number of goals to be conceded in the unfolding league. At a press briefing, Aussems said they approached the match seriously with the aim to win and bring back the confidence in the team. “The performance today (Saturday) was great and I am convinced that we have bagged maximum three points which was our main target.” he said. He added that Simba is blessed with many talented players that is why he is forced to make changes in accordance with the nature of their opponents. “Every player at Simba has potential to shine when given opportunity to do so that is why I do make several rotations trying to give everybody time to play,” Aussems said. Elaborating more on the upcoming CAF Champions League games of which Simba sailed into the group stages after downing Nkana 4-3 on aggregate, Aussems said he is confident that his side would reach into the quarter-finals of the continental competition. “I believe in the current squad I have. Moreover, if we will be able to play our home games in front of the big fans like the way we did with Nkana, surely, there would be no way for us to fail to get good results here,” he said. He added that even though their group D opponents which are Al Ahly from Egypt, AS Vita of DR Congo and Jeunesse Sportive de la Saoura of Algeria have big experience in Champions League competitions, Simba has great players and fantastic fans who are eager to do a great job. “Everybody knows that it has been a long wait for the country to produce a team in this great contest as such, the support would come from every citizen of the country,” the Belgian coach said. On his part, Singida United coach Seleman Jabir said his side lost ground of the game after committing many silly mistakes which Simba used to their advantage. “They say that the most experienced team usually win and this is what happened today (Saturday). We are still in the process to build a new competitive team capable to cause troubles in the league as such, our supporters should be patient since the process of making a good team takes time,” Jabir said. The defeat has pushed back Singida United to 13th slot on the table with 19 points after 17 encounters. They have so far scored 12 goals and conceding 17 goals in the process while registering five wins, four draws and eight losses. In other games played over the weekend, Lipuli FC was forced to a barren draw by visiting Ndanda FC at the Samora Stadium in Iringa while at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha, hosts African Lyon shared the spoils with Mwadui FC. At the Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Ruvu Shooting defeated bottom-placed Biashara United 1-0 courtesy of Emmanuel Martin.