TANZANIA Basketball Federation (TBF) has rescheduled the 2018 Taifa Cup Basketball Competition and now, the event is set to start tomorrow in Simiyu Region. TBF president Phares Magesa told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparations for the annual competition are going on well so far. Magesa said that they had to reschedule the throw off date so as to sort out some few logistic issues, a move he said will help them to stage a successful event. Initially, the event was scheduled to be held from December 1 to 10th before it was pushed to December 15 to 22nd this year in the same region. The postponement aimed at giving the host region much needed time to finish building new basketball courts and allow them to be in a playable condition. Magesa said: “Everything is now going well… we are pleased with the hard work our hosts have put in place to ensure they organise a successful event that will give participating teams fair battle ground. “Teams are expected in Simiyu from Friday (yesterday) ready for Sunday (tomorrow) opening day. They have been undergoing intensive training that will make the competition both stiff and entertaining for fans,” he said. He said that Simiyu Regional Commissioner (RC) Anthony Mtaka is expected to grace the opening of the event. Taifa Cup event is expected to draw together men and women teams from Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar regions. Magesa thanked Simiyu Region, saying they have been able to organise such tournament. He said that the region has put in place big efforts to build new basketball courts, which will be used during the event. Simiyu Region will also provide free accommodation and food for all participating teams during the event, which Magesa said is a good example for others to follow. He said that the event will serve as platform to select 30 players to form men and ladies national teams. The selected squad members will represent the country in next year’s international competitions. Regions that confirmed their participation include defending Champions Mbeya ‘Green City’, Dar es Salaam ‘Dream Team’, Kilimanjaro, Arusha, hosts Simiyu, Mwanza, Mara, Shinyanga, Iringa, Dodoma, Coast, Morogoro, Kigoma, Tanga and Rukwa. They will field both men and women’s teams. He said that the event will be followed by TBF general meeting and appealed for all members to take part for the betterment of sports.