SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said the away goal they scored against Zambia’s Nkana FC on Saturday still keeps them into the CAF Champions League contention. Simba suffered a 2-1 away defeat to Nkana at Kitwe Stadium, hence they just need a 1-0 win in the return leg match slated for Sunday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam for them to progress into the group stage of the CAF Champions League. It was Simba skipper John Bocco who netted the vital goal through a spot-kick while Ronald Kampamba and Kelvin Mubanga contributed a goal each for the hosts. However, in his postmatch press conference, Aussems lauded his players for scoring an away goal saying that the goal keeps their hopes of progressing further into the competition alive. “An away goal is better, if we did not score today (Saturday), definitely the reverse leg at home would have been difficult for us,” he said. Aussems added: “Before this game, I told my players to forget the eight goals they scored against Mbabane Swallows because these are two teams in different levels. Nkana are obviously a better side in comparison with Mbabane Swallows hence I told them to be cautious all the time.” Asked to comment on his Zambian import player Cletus Chama who stared against Mbabane Swallows but seemed to be out of the game against his home team, Aussems said he does not say on the individual performance of his players in public but rather talks with them personally. He also said the one week preparation time they would have prior to the second leg; he will thoroughly go through the video clip of the match to identify critical areas they need to improve before hosting their opponents. On his part, Nkana FC coach Beston Chambeshi said he was happy with the victory and will work hard during the return leg match in Dar es Salaam. “The away goal we conceded is just part of the match and the most important thing for us is to plan well ahead of our trip to Tanzania. I do not think they will defend as they did today hence when they open up, it would be advantage for us to get an away goal,” Chambeshi said. He added that his team is a good traveller as such, they would use the remaining 90 minutes wisely to return home with the needed triumph.