GOODS and services import bill increased by 8.8 percent to 10,357.4 million US dollars in the year ended October compared to 10,323.7 million US dollars on the year ending September, on account of the ongoing implementations of the infrastructural projects. The Bank of Tanzania (BoT) monthly economic review for October reports that goods import amounted to 8,143.3 million US dollars compared with 7,528.5 million US dollars in the corresponding period last year, with all the import categories recording increases. “A notable increase was observed in capital and intermediate goods that is much associated with the ongoing infrastructural development projects, including construction of standard gauge railway, roads and bridges, airports, and ports,” stated the report. Meanwhile, the rise in intermediate goods import bill was largely explained by an increase in the value of oil imports. Oil imports the second largest in goods imports went up by 3.4 percent to 1,916.8 million US dollars following increase in both volume and price, consistent with global market price developments. By contrast, importation of food and food stuff substantially declined in the year ending October on account of adequate supply of food across the country following good harvest during 2017/18 food crop-season. Services payment increased to 2,214.1 million US dollars in the year to October from 1,988.0 million US dollars in the previous year, largely following increase in transport and other business services payments. Payments with respect to transport, particularly freight, which accounted for the largest share of services payment, rose by 7.5 per cent in line with increase in goods imports. The primary income account income from capital related transactions and compensation of employees, had a deficit of 940.4 million US dollars compared with a deficit of 925.7 million US dollars in the year ending October last year. On the contrary, secondary income account, which captures unilateral current transfers, improved by 8.1 per cent to a surplus of 442.2 million US dollars from a surplus of 409.2 million US dollars, following increase in official inflows.