BUSINESSMAN Mustapha Kambangwa appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday charged with four counts relating to evading tax of over 188bn/-. Such charges include holding himself as a Value Added Tax (VAT) payer, fraudulent evasion of tax, money laundering and occasioning loss to a specified authority. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Janeth Mtega, the accused was not allowed to enter plea to the charges because the offences he is facing fall under the Economic and Organized Crime Control Act. The magistrate told the accused that under the circumstances, her court lacked jurisdiction to entertain the case, which will be tried by the High Court. She ordered the accused to go to remand. Senior State Attorney Christopher Msigwa, for the prosecution, informed the court that investigations into the matter have not been completed. The case was adjourned to December 17, 2018, for mention. Reading the charges, the trial attorney told the court that the accused is alleged to have committed the offences between June 1, 2016 and November 2, 2018 in Dar es Salaam. It is alleged that the accused held himself as a VAT payer and collected VAT amounting to 188,928,752,166/-, purporting to act on behalf of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). Within the period, Kambangwa fraudulently used Electronic Fiscal Device Receipt (EFD) machine registered in the name of Abraham's Group Company Limited to evade VAT amounting to 188bn/-. The prosecution also told the court that within the period, the accused acquired the money which he obtained as VAT deductions on sale of goods which ought to have been remitted to the Commissioner General of TRA. It is alleged that at the time the accused acquired the 188,928,752,166/-, he knew or ought to have known that the money was the proceeds of a predicate offence of tax evasion. Within the same period in the city, by willful acts of evading tax using the EFD machine registered in the said company, while he knew he is not registered as VAT payer, the accused caused the TRA to suffer a pecuniary loss of 188bn/-, which ought to have been paid to TRA as VAT.