THE government has encouraged Chinese investors to invest in cashew processing industries to add value to the cash crop. Industries, Trade and Investment Minister Joseph Kakunda said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the country produced 275,000 tonnes of cashew nuts annually, but only 30,000 tonnes of them were locally processed despite the local factories had the capacity to process up to 127,000 tonnes. “Because of this gap, we would like them to come to invest in processing industries to add value to crops,” Mr Kakunda appealed. He was speaking at a forum on China-Tanzania investment and trade promotion. President John Magufuli recently emphasised the need to set up local cashew processing facilities so that the country could no longer export raw cashew nuts. His statement came after he had decided that the government would buy all this year’s cashew nuts directly from farmers after traders had failed to increase the price at his request. Yesterday, Mr Kakunda used the platform, where there were about 20 Chinese companies to convince them to think of cashew nut processing industries. The Chinese companies have come to explore investment opportunities in partnership with local companies. A total of 136 local companies attended yesterday’s forum. Participants engaged in a business to business dialogue (B2B) for them to share experience and exchange contacts for future joint ventures. Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania Wang Ke said China was the largest contractor in Tanzania. On investment and trade, she said currently Tanzania geared up for the removal of red tape, including long procedures to obtain work permits and register a business. “There are many Chinese companies in the country that are willing to work with the government in investment projects,’ she noted. Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Executive Director Godfrey Simbeye called on the government to continue improving the investment environment. The TPSF has established a special desk to deal with Chinese investors, who want to partner with local investors. “We have already started attracting Chinese investors by introducing a special desk at which we have recruited a Chinese speaking Tanzanian to remove communication barrier,” he said.