THE economy is strong enough for banks to survive and make profit despite challenges of non-performing loans on profitability, the new Managing Director for the NBC Bank, Mr Theobald Sabi has said. He said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that they were optimistic that liquidity challenges that led to increased non-performing loans would ease and the economy would continue to thrive and provide more opportunities for banks to make profit. “We are confident the economy is strong and provides opportunities for banks to operate and make profit,” he said at his maiden meeting with business editors. Tanzania has been a macro-economic success story for nearly two decades enjoying strong uninterrupted economic growth since the mid-1990s. According to banking analysts, most banks recorded positive results for the quarter ended 30th September, 2018, which was seen as a surprise as the banking sector has been struggling with high NPLs and the second quarter which ended 30 June was far from impressive. However, NBC the third largest bank in terms of assets, was an exception as it registered a net loss of 5.56 billion in the third quarter for 2018 from a net profit of 8.9 billion in a corresponding period last year. Analysts attributed the loss to clearing for bad debts after adoption of new stricter international financing reporting standards, IFRS 9. Banks in Tanzania were ordered to mandatorily adopt the IFRS 9 standards in their banking and lending operations from January this year, which introduce a new model of classifying financial assets, driven by cash flow characteristics and the business model in which an asset is held. It also introduces a single impairment model that will apply to all financial instruments, which is a departure from the previous accounting requirements. Classification determines how financial assets and liabilities are accounted for in the financial statements. Mr Sabi said high NPLs were still a challenge in the market as they have negative impact on the profitability but their efforts to lower them were bearing fruits, he said. “On NPLs, that is a challenging area in the market. But for our bank NPLs have continued to decline. We continue to lower them and they will go down,” he said. He noted that they see their customer base increasing which is an indication of growing confidence of the bank.