‘WAKE up, Run and Save Serengeti,’ that was the motto for this year’s round of Loliondo-Serengeti Marathon held over the weekend in Wasso, in Ngorongoro District. The defending champion Raketi Isack who used 1 hour 7 minutes and 46 seconds, retained the 21 km race title and walked away with 250,000/- cash prize besides the gold medal. Raketi was just a second ahead of the runner up Wilson Gabase, who clocked 1 hour 7 minutes and 47 seconds to cover the 21km race. He pocketed 150,000/ and a silver medal while the second runner up, Haji Dayani who clocked 1 hour 9 minutes and 39 seconds walked away with 100,000/- cash prize. There were no ladies in the main 21 km discipline, instead they all participated in the 10km race whose winner was Matilda Zakayo who clocked 37 minutes and 41 seconds. She was awarded 150,000/- while the secondplaced Pasiana Edward spent 40 minutes and 24 seconds. She pocketed 100,000/- . The second runner was Saris Abdi who spent 41 minutes and 8 seconds. All runners were also awarded with medals after the race. The annual grand race was staged as a means to help conserve the Serengeti eco-system that comprises Loliondo Game Controlled Area, Serengeti National Park, Ngorongoro Conservation Area, Maswa Game Reserve and the adjoining Kenya’s Maasai Mara. The Ngorongoro District Sports officer, Ngoka Simon said they intend to revive Ngorongoro’s sporting potential and soon they will organize meetings on soccer, netball and athletes officials, including the General Elections. The Ngorongoro District Commissioner (DC), Rashi Taka was the guest of honour during the race and promised that all the top ten winners in the Marathon will be sponsored by his office to participate in the Ngorongoro Run 2019 next April. “This year, we have received many requests from Kenyan athletes and runners from other countries who wanted to participate, therefore we are in talks with the Athletics Association to upgrade the event into an International Marathon that draws participants from other countries to take part from next year 2019,” said DC Taka. Race coordinator, Paul Dudui said the Loliondo- Serengeti, apart from being a platform for upcoming athletes, also aims at promoting tourism, therefore it is vital for the event to go international in order to fully accomplish this aim.