THE 55-year-old state-run insurance firm, National Insurance Corporation (NIC) is on right track to reclaim its lost glory after climbing to five best insurance firms in the country in just three years. The NIC Managing Director, Sam Kamanga said in an interview in Dar es Salaam yesterday that, “We are moving in the right track to become number one insurance company in the country in just three years since the fifth phase government entered into power.” He said in a short period under review NIC has managed to win public confidence, attributing the success story to the government efforts to empower the insurance firm compete in the market. “It is now all out to win public confidence for the NIC to perform efficiently in the market. We are moving in the right direction, the lost customers come back,” he said. He said before the fifth phase government entered into power NIC was ranked number 11, but today the insurance company is among the five best insurance companies in the country. Mr Kamanga said paying client claims timely is one of the strategies deployed in order to win back public confidence against the deep-seated mistrust facing most insurance companies in the country. He boasted with new insurance services offered by his firm such as gas and oil insurance products where most of the oil and gas companies are currently being insured by the state-run insurance firm. Other new insurance products introduced by NIC into the market include insurance in agriculture, the sector that employs over 70 per cent of the country’s workforce. To reach the underserved population particularly in the rural areas, he noted that NIC was planning to expand its wings by opening up more branches in the upcountry to bring closer insurance services and products. Kamanga lauded the government’s move of encouraging public institutions to be insured by NIC, citing some of public entities like ATCL, TIRA, TTCL, TPB Bank and Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC). Last year, NIC contributed to the government’s coffers about 1.7bn/- as dividend. “This is a good start. We appeal for more government supporter that will impact on the increased contributions to the coffers.” He said also that NIC has been supporting community projects like education in both the Mainland and Zanzibar. Recently, Commissioner of Insurance, Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA), Dr Baghayo Saqware urged NIC to expand its scope of operations by opening new branches outside Tanzania’s borders to expand its horizon. “There are newly established companies which have already opened their branches outside the country and I am expecting that one day you invite me to open a branch in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) or East African Community (EAC). You are matured enough to do so as your age show,” said Dr Saqware.