PROJECTIONS of a recently conducted study on non-communicable diseases (NCDs) have it that Africa will have double burden of the problem by 2030, unless interventions are made to salvage the situation. Experts push for efforts to prevent and control NCDs in the African countries as the World Health Organisation (WHO) projects an increase of deaths to 5,000,000 by 2030. The identified ailments include cardiovascular, cancer, diabetes and chronic respiratory diseases. According to International Development Research Centre’s (IDRC) Senior Programme Specialist Dr Samuel Oti, there is need for immediate actions to fight the problem. Speaking at a three-day Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) and Media for Environment, Science, Health and Agriculture (MESHA) organised workshop in Kigali, Rwanda recently, Dr Oti warned: “Such projections are cause of concern unless preventive measures are implemented. NCDs are closer to us than we think and they are major causes of deaths, globally.” The four main risk factors that are sometimes called commercial determinants of health are tobacco, alcohol, physical inactivity and unhealthy diet, he said. Dr Oti argued that the media can play a big role in informing the public on the problem and that it’s high time African government involved media experts in the fight against the diseases. He further pointed out that funding remains insufficient to attain the nine targets in WHO Global Action plan on NCDs as it has remained at two per cent, equivalent to 492 million US dollars out of the 36 billion dollar budget since 2000. Preventing NCDs is relatively cheap as it needs about 11.4bn US dollar for investment compared to the cost of inaction which is estimated to drain from the global economy up to 50 trillion US dollars between 2011 and 2025. He commended Tanzania for her efforts to fight NCDs, saying the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children has demonstrated the fortitude by setting a 2016/2020 strategic plan on the matter.