PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday ordered the pension funds to carry special audit on the list of pensioners by removing ghost pensioners and avoiding investments with no reliable return. Again, he instructed the pension funds to manage properly the workers’ reserves in a bid to have funds last longer. Implementation of his directives should be supervised by the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled) Jenista Mhagama and the Director General of Social Security Regulatory Authority (SSRA) Ms Irene Isaka. The President made the instructions during a meeting with leaders of the Trade Union Congress of Tanzania (TUCTA) and its allied associations, Public Service Social Security Fund (PSSSF), National Social Security Fund (NSSF) and Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE) at State House in Dar es Salaam during a meeting that was convened to discuss the calculations of retirement benefits. According to him, there is a possibility of pension funds having ghost pensioners given the experience that was observed during verification exercises for students, civil servants and fertilizers. During his speech, Dr Magufuli expressed disappointment on how pension funds have been mismanaging pensioners’ contributions by investing in white elephant projects, hence denying retirees from receiving their pensions on time. “I’m aware that there is one of the fund that used over 1.3bn/- budget for printing calendars, fliers and advertisement per year and also contracted a private security company at 2bn/- per year while there is an option of reducing the cost by employing Suma –JKT guards at cheaper cost,” observed Dr Magufuli. Categorically, he warned the pension funds from injecting money in white elephant projects like that of Dege Eco Village in Kigamboni District, saying they bring losses that can’t be recovered. “Most of these projects were introduced on the interest of few individuals, something which isn’t accepted because contributors aren’t benefiting from it,” stressed the Head of State. He also instructed the funds to slash unnecessary expenses and take more efforts on adding number of members. Meanwhile, the government has managed to settle 1.2trn/- being money accumulated through monthly contributions of civil servants to social security funds. The paid pension funds are Public Service Pension Fund (PSPF) 638.5bn/-, Local Authorities Pension Fund (LAPF) 221.3bn/-, National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) 200.6bn/-, Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF) 44bn/-, PPF 41.1bn/-, NSSF 26bn/-, Workers Compensation Fund (WCF) 17.7bn/- and Zanzibar Social Security Fund (ZSSF) 135.8m/- Moreover at least 550bn/- out of 774bn/- has been paid to those who retired on the 1st of August, this year, with President Magufuli promising that the remaining amount will be paid in January next year. “Right now, the government has decided to start paying on time all contributions supposed to be paid for its employees to their pension funds, on average we are paying 126bn/-,” he added. Every month the government is paying 560bn/- salaries to civil servants from its monthly collections. The President also instructed the pension funds to increase the number of its members who currently stand at 1.26 million. According to Dr Magufuli, 442,729 members were registered by NSSF, 342,799 (PSPF), 300,000 (PPF), 173 (LAPF), while GEPF had registered a total of 67,350 members.