TANZANIA Bankers Association (TBA) has picked CRBD bank Managing Director, Mr Abdulmajid Nsekela as a new chair after overwhelming voted to succeed Dr Charles Kimei. Mr Nsekela was voted 100 per cent to enable him assume a three-year tenure late Tuesday. He took over the TBA chair from Dr Kimei who retired as CRDB managing director some three months ago after serving the position for two decades. Mr Nsekela said immediately after becoming the new TBA chair that he was overwhelmed by the trust bestowed by his fellow bankers on him and promised to drive forward the association mission and objectives to new heights. “I am overwhelmed by the trust they put on me. But I am looking forward to work together with my fellow members to drive the association agendas... and to improve financial sector further,” Mr Nsekela said. The sector that the new chair wants to emphasize further includes supporting the government industrialisation and financial inclusion agenda. He also said he will, as TBA charter stipulates, foster the relationship among the government and other sector and the association further. “Banks are catalyst for the economy growth...with the good laid down policy ‘ am seeing lenders returning into good performance in near future,” Mr Nsekela said on Tuesday evening after being elected. TBA Executive Director, Ms Tusegeleke Mwaikasu said have ‘no doubts’ working with Mr Nsekela as she knows him prior to his appointment to CRDB. “I am sure he will drive home the association agendas,” she said adding especially when TBA embarks on the five years Financial Inclusion Framework II. The acting TBA Chair, Mr Sanjay Rughani said the new chair will bring new ideas in to the association that draws its members from financial institutions. “He (Mr Nsekela) will bring in a new vigor and building the industry,” Mr Rughani said, who is also a deputy TBA Chair. Mr Nsekela joined CRDB after crossing from NMB Bank where he served as Business Head Retail, a position he held since December 2015. TBA main objective, as contained in the constitution, is to facilitate the consideration and discussion of matters of common interest to its members.