ACHIEVING one’s dream and goals comes from selfrealisation, efforts and determination. No matter what path road used through the hurdles and triumphs being a government or a private school, the right mindset will lead to achieving of goals. These words were uttered by Raphael Dennis, an advocate for the rights of children and young people who works towards ensuring they live free from violence and are able to meaningfully participate in matters affecting their lives. Raphael was speaking recently in Dar es Salaam during the commemoration of World Children’s Day, an event which was convened by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in conjunction with the government of Tanzania. Believing in the power within you, says Raphael and using it effectively makes one a hero of tomorrow. He stressed that the government and partners should invest more on children education, but also in institutions for children’s engagement. “Investing in Children creates spaces in which children and young people can come together, discuss issues and develop arguments through research, then support them to enter into dialogue with adults who have the power to act on their agenda,” says Raphael. This young man is currently interning with Community for Children’s Rights (CCR) and he usually takes part in identifying community members who are ready to protest for children (Citizen 4 Change) and visualizing them on digital maps. He strongly insists there is a need to work alongside children and young people and adults Why self realisation is vital in youth who provide services to them, to create a range of effective ways in which they can exercise their right to have a say and this may often result in improving their lives in future. Raphael joined pre-school a year earlier than the standard age set by the government because of envying his elder brother when he carried his school back-pack and his school uniform. After enrolling in Elkiorey Primary School (government school) in Arusha, Raphael realized that school meant more than just uniform and a packback and efforts were needed to maintain good grades and his efforts soon paid off when he completed his Standard Seven examinations with an A grade, the only candidate with that mark in the entire school. He later joined Kiranyi Secondary School at the ward level in Arusha Region, fighting hurdles encountered during his time there, doubled up and focused more on his studies and scored Division 1 in his O-Level examinations. Again, he was the only one that passed at the school, then joined Lyamungo Secondary School in Kilimanjaro Region in 2018 for A-level studies taking science subjects - Physics, Chemistry and Biology where he got Division 1. When he was just 11 years of age, he joined the Junior Council of the United Republic of Tanzania (JCURT) at ward level, where he was appointed chairperson, his aspiration in joining the council was the pain incurred when fellow children experienced setbacks. That situation made them drop out of school and they were affected by early marriages and child labour which shuttered their dreams and goals in life. Through this experience this young man has directed his efforts in advocating for children’s rights and he uses children council as a platform for children’s voices to be heard and he has vowed to make sure that children’s rights are advocated at all levels.