THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has congratulated Simba SC for reaching the Group stage of CAF Champions League after eliminating Nkana FC with 4-3 aggregate victory. Simba came from a goal down to net three times on Sunday at a packed National Stadium in Dar es Salaam courtesy of goals from Johas Mkude, Meddie Kagere and a late classic winner from crafty Cletous Chama to book a slot into the last 16 of the continental showpiece after 15 ye ars of absence. Through its official website, TFF said they have high hopes that Simba would do well in the group stages and bring pride to the country. In his post-match interview, Simba Head Coach Patrick Aussems said he dedicated his side’s entry to the Champions League group stages to Mohammed Dewji (MO) who owns shares at the club as well as to the entire Simba fans countrywide. “Honestly, our supporters played a motivating factor for this victory since they stormed the stadium in their large numbers and pushed us to triumph,” Aussems said. He added that the work rate displayed by his charges after conceding the early goal was amazing since they never gave up but rather kept on fighting. “Immediately after scoring the second goal few minutes before half-time, our confidence doubled and I knew that the last half of the clash would be difficult for each team. “As you saw, the second half was neutral since either team had clear chances to make a break through but leading by 2- 1; I knew that at any point, my players would hit the most needed goal,” he said. Furthermore, the Belgian coach revealed that Nkana gave them a difficult game no wonder they were the first side to open the score sheet. “They came here to play but we reacted positively and in the end, the best team cruised into the group stages,” said he. Commenting a bit on how he visualises the upcoming group stage games, Aussems said because the matches would be played on home and away system, winning home encounters will be his number one priority. “This is the first step towards making Simba to be in the top five big teams in Africa in the next 2 to 3 years,” Aussems said confidently. On his part, Nkana’s coach complimented his players for putting up the good fight in the first half contributing them to hit the leading goal through Walter Bwalya in the 16t h minute. “I think we slept in the dying minutes of the first half as we conceded the second goal hence making the game even hard for us to regain momentum. We missed great scoring opportunities in each half but we were somehow blunt on the target,” he said. Aussems made three substitutions in the second half with the first victim being Nicholas Gyan who was substituted in the 53r d minute for Juuko Murshid and later in the 57t h minute, he called to bench injured Meddie Kagere who was replaced by Hassan Dilunga. Also, the Ugandan import striker Emmanuel Okwi paved a way for Shiza Kichuya in the 79t h minute which turned out to be Aussem’s last change on the day.