AS the world marked the 70th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) on Monday, the government of France has pledged to continue seeking consensus for universal abolition of the death penalty. “We also seek to work towards elimination of all forms of discrimination and gender inequality,” the Chargé d’Affaires at the French Embassy in Tanzania, Mr Alexandre Peaudeau, remarked, during the declaration’s commemoration in Dar es Salaam on Monday. The French embassy and the embassy of Belgium as well as the United Nations organised an exhibition and a pleading contest at the Alliance Française where seven schools and about 280 students took part in the event held under the theme “#Spirou4Rights#. “All of us can act daily to defend the rights that protect us. I salute all human rights defenders for their contribution in this universal struggle, which is a tribute to the work of their predecessors who 70 years ago wrote the founding text which was proclaimed in Paris on December 10, 1948,” he explained. Mr Peaudeau expressed concerns that the adoption of the declaration 70 years ago has not put an end to abuses, wars, discrimination and other violations of human rights around the world. Speaking earlier, the Ambassador of Belgium in Tanzania, Mr Peter Van Acker, stressed the importance of state parties to take necessary steps to enforce the rights enshrined in the declaration and other legally binding instruments for the protection of human rights. “The government of Tanzania has on its part committed itself on protection and promotion of human rights as defined by its constitution. “In this regard, it notably created institutions and bodies to protect and promote human rights, including the Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance (CHRAGG) which is the national human rights created under the constitution,” he remarked. Last year, President John Magufuli categorically stated that he could not assent to an execution of the death penalty in Tanzania. Speaking during the swearing in of Chief Justice Ibrahim Hamis Juma, Dr Magufuli was clear-cut that he could not make that “difficult decision” on the execution of convicts on death row. “I know there are people who were convicted of murder and awaiting the death penalty, but please don’t bring the list to me for decision because I know how difficult execution is,” he said. Tanzania’s Penal Code, Cap 16 stipulates the death penalty for serious offences like murder and treason. According to the Legal and Human Rights Center (LHRC), 472 people were sentenced to death in 2015, 20 of whom are women. Only about 20 countries have abolished the death penalty with Egypt, Libya, Nigeria, Somalia and Sudan still practicing executions. Tanzania last executed a convict in 1994.