COMMITTEE Chairperson of Tanzania Safari Channel, Prof Faustin Kamuzora, has unveiled the commitment of tourism stakeholders in the country to set aside a budget of 5bn/- to run a channel, which promotes tourist destinations in the country. Speaking in Dar es Salaam at the weekend, Prof Kamuzora, who is also Permanent Secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy and Coordination), said the budget would be spent in six months to buy equipment, hire staff and for programmes. He added that the committee’s report on the implementation of government directives would be handed over to Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa on Wednesday. “From now up to the next six months we need 5bn/- to implement operational plans. At our meeting, stakeholders agreed to raise the money. TBC has its budget and its contribution is immense as it is one running the programme,” he said. He added that the money would be spent on buying equipment, hire enough experts, on programmes and produce new programmes using hired experts and the equipment. Prof Kamuzora admitted that at the moment the channel did not have enough programmes, but stakeholders had committed themselves to ensuring in six months a solution was found. “All potential stakeholders have committed themselves to contributing immensely in six months, which is the second half of the 2018/19 budget and have promised to set aside enough budget in the 2019/20 financial year,” he said. He named some of the stakeholders forming the committee as the Prime Minister’s Office, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Tanapa, Tawa, Ngorongoro, TTB, TCRA and TBC, adding that the committee was hopeful that the channel would meet public expectations and the objective of promoting tourism would be achieved. On employment, Prof Kamuzora noted that experts would be hired and would work in collaboration with TBC workers. He added that some of the programmes would be purchased from both local and international companies through contracts. “There are experts in the country, who have already demonstrated their interest in this area. We will ensure that from the budget we will hire some of them on a contract basis,” he said. He added that together with experts, who would be hired, TBC would continue assigning its staff to produce programmes alongside other duties. To ensure the TV was viewed by as many people as possible, Prof Kamuzora said TCRA had been directed to issue a licence, which would make the channel a must view and all decoders would carry it. “We are confident that the channel will prosper. We understand that there are so many decoders and we have already directed TCRA to issue a licence, which will make the channel a must view for decoders as plans are underway to make it available on all international platforms,” he said. Prof Kamuzora pointed out that the channel was a golden opportunity for Tanzanians to learn about tourist attractions in the country and become more patriotic by admiring and visiting Tanzanian tourist attractions.