TANZANIA—like many other developing nations—has for many years enjoyed the financial support from development partners, under bilateral and multilateral arrangements. True, Tanzanians have benefited greatly from donor funded social and economic projects. Unfortunately, foreign aids have lately become a serious disappointment. Many potential financiers have been pledging financial supports, which they ultimately fail to honour, subjecting the country’s development budget to serious embarrassment. Conditionality is another serious problem with foreign aids today. The aids come tied up with conditions, which are sometimes, degrading. Consider the homosexuality condition, for instance. It seems the Europeans and Americans are firmly determined to use their financial muscles and economic prowess to drag Tanzanians into embracing the morally distasteful lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI). We say no, although Tanzania, as a developing nation with a lot of ambitious development projects to accomplish might be in dire need of financial resources to execute the projects, but the sourcing of the money cannot in anyway be at the expanse of her sovereignty. We sincerely concur with the Minister of Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango’s stance that needy as it might look, “Tanzania has no space for demeaning aids.” Tanzania needs money but from providers who appreciate Tanzanian citizens as human beings who deserve respect. And, the only proved strategy to detach ourselves from the yoke of financial aids is for all patriotic Tanzanians to pay taxes to enable the government to accomplish all the major development projects using internal resources. That is why we should all rally behind the national crusade against tax evasion. Logically, tax evaders are the agents of the rogue donors who want to compel us into homosexuality, which hitherto remains illegal in Tanzania and punishable by up to 30 years in prison. Whoever is evading tax is impliedly trying to compel the government to bow before donors who aspire to turn the country into the nation of lesbians and guys. Tax evaders therefore should be our number one enemy.