ZIMAMOTO Head Coach, Abdulrahman Hassan said beating Kaizer Chiefs 2-1 was a huge achievement despite being knocked out of CAF Confederation Cup by the South African giants. The islanders pulled a 2-1 win at the Amani Stadium in Unguja on Tuesday as Kaizer Chiefs’ stuttering season hit a new low. Chiefs advance to the next round with a 5-2 aggregate success‚ following their 4-0 win in the first leg match in Johannesburg a week ago. However, their defeat in the second leg is among the most humiliating in South Africa’s 25 years of competing in African club competition. Zimamoto took the lead shortly before halftime after Ethiopian referee Dawit Asamenew awarded them the first of the two penalties in the game which was converted by Yussuf Mtuba. Chiefs hit back early in the second half when Parker supplied the assist with a fine pass that was turned home by Bafana Bafana international Manyama. Mtuba again converted‚ beating goalkeeper Virgil Vries from 12-yards and the visitors had their backs to the wall. Shortly after the match, Zimamoto coach said they were battling to turn the table against the visitors but lady luck was not on their side. “We needed more goals to turn around the score but we are pleased with a win against one of the top clubs in Africa,” he said. Meanwhile, Mtibwa Sugar Head Coach, Zuberi Katwila expressed his satisfaction after they completed a double over Northern Dynamo of Seychelles with a narrow 1-0 win at Stad Linite in Mahe on Tuesday afternoon. The lone goal was scored by attacker, Haruna Chanongo in the second half, as Mtibwa Sugar registered a 5-0 aggregate triumph in this preliminary round of CAF Confederation Cup. They had won 4-0 in the first leg match at Chamazi Complex in Dar es Salaam a week ago. “It was a good performance away from home though it was not easy as our opponent was well organised but the important thing was that we managed to win in difficult circumstances. His opposing end Cliff Nolin said; “We were quite well organised for this match and we did not give them space to operate as we closed them down and it was a quite decent showing where we even had chances to score.” Mtibwa Sugar started brightly as they looked to add to their score of the first leg and in the 15th minute Jafari Kibaya spread the ball out to Ismael Mhesa who fired at Dynamo goalie Frank Moutoni who spilled the shot but Awadh Issa could not force the loose ball over the goalline. Nine minutes later, Ally Shariff threaded a pass to Issa but he rifled the just wide off the crossbar. The home team had a decent opportunity in the 42nd minute from a strong run by Gambian striker Musa Njie before he flashed the ball across goal but Achille Ernesta was just inches from connecting the teasing cross for a goalless first half. Dynamo grew in stature after the interval and their Malagasy playmaker Rajamana forced a superb save out of goalie Shaaban Shaaban with a curling freekick. In the 68th minute, Dynamo lost the ball in midfield and Ally Sharif released substitute Chanongo, whose thumping shot crashed under the crossbar and assistant referee Herve Kakunzi flagged to indicate that the ball had crossed the line for a 1-0 score.