FOR the first time in history, Zanzibar has unveiled preparations for the Isles Inter-district Athletics Championship to be held on December 15 and 16 at the Amaan Stadium. The two-day athletics meet is sponsored by the Isles President Ali Mohamed Shein who will be also the event’s Chief Guest. Also fully involved in facilitating the two-day championship are National Sports Council (NSC) and Zanzibar Athletics Association (ZAA). The Zanzibar athletics body (ZAA) president, Cosmas Chasama unveiled yesterday that the inter-district championship will involve districts of Pemba and Unguja and the winners will be awarded trophies, medals and cash prizes. Chasama, who was among the officials who attended Tanzania Olympic Committee’s annual general meeting (AGM) said 11 districts; seven from Unguja and four from Pemba have been listed in the showdown. According to Chasama, the big athletic event has drawn over 220 athletes and 55 officials with the main focus of searching talented runners for the national team. The district that emerges the top will pocket 1,000,000/- cash prize besides medals and trophies. The runners up will walk with 750,000/- accompanied with a trophy and medals. 500,000/- is set for the second runners up together with a trophy and a medal while 250,000 awaits the most disciplined district There will be also motivational prize of 200,000 to be awarded to the athlete who clock the best time in his or her category. Meanwhile, ZAA has invited vice presidents of Athletics Tanzania (AT), Dr Hamad Ndee and William Kalaghe, the Secretary General of TOC, Filbert Bayi and the secretary general of AT technical committee, Rehema Kilo to witness the two-day competition. Dr Ndee represented Tanzania in the Olympic Games of Munich Germany in 1974 as a 200m sprinter. For over five decades Zanzibar has been a breeding ground for the country’s best athletes most often specializing in sprint and field event. Masoud Tawakal who holds a high jump record and Mwalimu Ally who holds the national 200m record, are the best runners Zanzibar has ever produced. Sprinter Ali Hamisi Gullam is the latest running jewel from Zanzibar.