WITH the discussions of the federation of the current East African Community (EAC) into a single state agenda being in the bloc, this is the right time for foreign investors and citizens in diaspora to come back and invest in the region. This is an area overflowing with potentials – from agriculture to mining to tourism to energy, which any serious investor should not miss. This is eq ually because the six partner States of Tanzania, K enya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and South Sudan have agreed to co-operate in the areas of Investment and Industrial Development, as outlined in the EAC Treaty, where an investor would be assured of a win-win situation. This further hinges on the fact that it’s area with more than 130 million people, making it one of the largest single-bloc regional markets in Africa, where market for business would be guaranteed. This market is made even bigger by a series of mutually East African beneficial partnerships with regional blocs such as COMESA and SADC, boasting of a combined population well over 400 million, as well as a fullyfledged Customs Union. To boast of the reasons why an investor would have no hiccups in doing business in the region, one would automatically realise that the citizens are also united by a common language of Kiswahili, spoken by the majority of the population, who would be readily sourced as local workers. With climate also favouring agriculture and the topography, where local materials would spring from for industries, East Africa is a stunning and scenic environment, shaped by global plate tectonic forces that have created the East African Rift, beautiful enough for academic researches. This is a bloc and home to the famous global Mount K ilimanjaro and Mount K enya, the two tallest peaks in Africa, and also includes the world’s second largest freshwater lake, Lake V ictoria, and the world’s second deepest lake, Lake Tanganyika, all attractive in tourism investments. Not too hot and cold, the climate of East Africa is rather atypical of eq uatorial regions with a combination of generally high altitude and the rain shadow of the westerly monsoon winds created by the Rwenzori Mountains and Ethiopian Highlands, q uite beautiful to relax . This is a new region where corruption is fought by all governments, and bureaucracies favour an investor who is serious to partner with the middle class, educated and versatile in business. These are people (read worker) flexible enough to offer the biggest crosssectoral economic opportunities opened in the world economy and ready to embrace technology to grow. With these in mind, returning diaspora should eq ually see the essence of recognising these potential opportunities in their own countries and come back to invest in the region. The governments are ready to support them for local economic growth with their skills and talents, by acting as “ first movers” for the region to grow.