TANZANIAN roads remain among the deadliest in the world, according to a new report by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The report, which was released yesterday, says the country averagely records 29.2 deaths per 100,000 people as per the 2016 data. The death rate is well above the average rate of 27.5 deaths per 100,000 people in low-income countries. The risk of dying on Tanzanian roads is over three times higher than in high income countries whose average rate is 8.3 deaths per 100,000 people. Although there have been efforts to improve the safety of road users in the country, protracted process to enact more efficient road traffic act is seen as among the impediments to the efforts. Tanzania is among countries whose road traffic laws are yet to meet international best practice around key risks like speeding, drinking and driving, and failure to use seat-belts, motorcycle helmets and child restraints. Other gaps in the current laws include failure to address safer infrastructure like sidewalks and dedicated lanes for cyclists and motorcyclists; improved vehicle standards like those mandating electronic stability control and advanced braking; as well as enhanced post-crash care. While the measures have contributed to reductions in road traffic deaths in 48 middle and high income countries, not a single low income country has reduced overall deaths, largely due to lack of such measures. Again, the report highlights huge discrepancy in number of deaths reported by police and WHO. While the police reported 3,256 deaths in 2016, WHO put the figure at 16,252. Globally, the report says, road traffic deaths continue to rise, with fatalities reaching 1.35 million, annually. “These deaths are unacceptable price to pay for mobility,” said WHO Director General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “There is no excuse for inaction. This is a problem with proven solutions. This report is a call for governments and partners to take much greater action to implement these measures,” he added. Road traffic deaths are now the leading cause of deaths for children and young adult, signaling a need for a shift in the current child health agenda, which has largely neglected the road safety. According to the report, whilst progress has been made in the prevention and control of infectious diseases, the relative contribution of deaths from non-communicable diseases and injuries is on the increase. More people today die in road related injuries than of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and diarrhoea diseases, says the report. “Road safety is an issue that does not receive anywhere near the attention it deserves – and it’s really one of our great opportunities to save lives around the world,” said Bloomberg Philanthropies Founder, CEO and WHO Global Ambassador for Non-communicable Diseases and Injuries Michael Bloomberg. “We know which interventions work. Strong policies and enforcement, smart road design and powerful public awareness campaigns can save millions of lives over the coming decades,” he added.