THE headline: “Central Bank set to introduce regulations to curb banks from overcharging clients” (the Custodian 11 December, p. 15) may be music to the ears of those bank users who think they are being charged unfairly for some of the services they get. But we need to be careful before we celebrate. Many banks are fighting for survival, what with rising non performing loans (NPLs) and the economic crunch faced by many of their clients. The article, under the above headline, and which we are reading, carries a good photograph of the Governor of the Bank of Tanzania, who is reported to want to see banks lower or remove charges on some services which they provide, and increase loans to the private sector. Nevertheless, unless the loans to the private sector perform, the banks can only face lower revenue streams if service charges are restricted. In turn, this could mean jeorpadising depositors’ money. The Depositors’ Insurance Fund is a joke since it only guarantees a maximum of Tshs 1,500,000 per depositor when a bank goes burst. The rest of the money is exposed. My humble request to the Governor is that there should be foolproof arrangements to ensure the security of depositors’ funds. Savings are extremely important to the economy and to the welfare of the citizens and should not be so poorly protected, as is the current situation. We quote some sentences from the article: “Regulations aimed at ‘checking against’ unfair imposition of charges by commercial banks on clients will be unveiled soon by the Bank of Tanzania (BOT).” “We need banks that provide loans to the private sector. When banks don’t play that role, it means they affect the implementation of the monetary policy, now that the BOT has managed to ‘check against’ inflation which remains under 5 percent.” In the above sentences, the writer uses the phrase “check(ing) against” twice to depict the efforts being taken to curb something. In both cases, the preposition “against” is redundant. Among the many meanings of the verb “to check” is one that means: “to control something; to stop something from increasing or getting worse”. Thus the BOT wants to check the unfair imposition of charges on clients (not “to check against”). Likewise, the BOT has managed to check inflation, which remains under 5 percent p.a. (not: “to check against” inflation). According to the writer: “The BOT feels that there are many ‘bureau de change shops’ operating in the country, questioning why ‘are’ some of them located in the outskirts of cities where foreigners are rare and hard currency availability not assured”. A bureau de change is a place where you can change money from one currency to another eg where you can change US dollars into Tanzania Shillings. But note: One bureau de change; many bureaux (or bureaus) de change. Besides, ‘bureau de change” can stand on its own and does not need to be qualified by calling it a shop. You do not say “a butchery shop”; you just say “a butchery”. Likewise, we say “a bureau de change”, not: “a bureau de change shop”. The Governor’s feelings can be expressed in a rephrased sentence as follows: “The BOT feels that there are ‘too’ many ‘bureaux’ de change operating in the country, questioning why some of them are located in the outskirts of cities where foreigners are rare and hard currency availability not assured”. The writer further tells us that: “the Governor of the BOT has been praised for ‘reigning in’ rogue banks engaged in money laundering”. Yes, I have heard the phrase “reign in” before, but I could not find it in my faithful Oxford Advanced Learners’ Dictionary. Could it be possible that it has another spelling? What could that be? Further consultation revealed the source of the confusion. Both “reign” and “rein” sound similar. But: “to reign” is to rule; while “to rein in” means to start to control somebody or something more strictly. Therefore: “the Governor of the BOT has been praised for ‘reining in’ (not: ‘reigning in’) rogue banks engaged in money laundering”. Well done Professor BOT Governor. But please remember the millions of bank clients whose deposits are exposed to a huge risk, and do something commendable to protect them. You will ever be remembered for that.