SIMBA and Mtibwa Sugar are facing defining moments in the CAF inter-club competitions away in Kitwe, Zambia and Kampala, Uganda respectively today. Simba will face hosts Nkana FC in CAF Champions League’s first round, first leg in Kitwe, while Mtibwa will battle it out against Uganda’s KCCA in the CAF Confederation Cup first round, first leg at the Lugogo ground in Kampala. Simba versus Nkana clash will certainly be a mouthwatering. Both clubs wear reds and formed around the same time with Nkana FC formed in 1935, while Simba was formed a year later, in 1936. On the pitch Nkana FC is the better of the two in continental football having played in one CAF Champions League final and reaching five semifinals, while for Simba the most they have progressed in the CAF champions League is the group stage in 2003 but the club reached the CAF Cup final in 1993. The last time Simba and Nkana faced each other was in 2002 when Nkana beat Simba 4-0 in Kitwe before losing 3-0 in Tanzania as Nkana progressed to the next round on 4-3 aggregate. And, Simba will need to post positive results away to be in a better position to progress into the group stage of the continental top tier clubs championship. Going into today’s match, Simba Head Coach, Patrick Aussems has said Zambian virtuoso midfielder, Clatous Chama will inspire his charges to post positive results against hosts. The Belgian tactician was quoted by Zambia media as saying that with fast knowledge of Zambian football, Chama will certainly be a key player for Simba in the match. Simba arrived in Kitwe on Wednesday with coach Aussems, saying he will rely on the information midfielder Chama has given him to overcome Nkana in Kitwe. He said that Chama has given him tips on how to beat Nkana. “I have 10 other players as well because we need to begin with 11. I don’t only have Chama but for sure Chama can give me good advice because he knows the team and the players. So we already talked about that, so each one has his own job of playing and I will be coaching,” Aussems said. Chama, the Zambia national team Assistant Captain has been the talk of town in Zambia ahead of the Saturday’s CAF Champions League match in Kitwe. And, before their arrival in Kitwe, Chama alias ‘Tripple C’ hit headlines in Zambia media after his good show in Simba’s voluminous win over Mbabane Swallows of Eswatini in the preliminary round of the continental top tier clubs championship. Chama netted one in Simba’s 4-1 win in the first leg at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, before grabbing a brace against Mbabane Swallows in the return leg in Simba’s 4-0 away victory that helped them to advance with 8-1 aggregate victory. Apart from Chama, Simba will also bank on striking trio of skipper John Bocco, Emmanuel Okwi and Meddie Kagere to rip apart the hosts, while they have to be at their best to stop Nkana’s exciting players like Walter Bwalya, Kelvin Mubanga and Chisamba Lungu. Nkana Head Coach Beston Chambeshi believes their game against Simba will be a 50/50 affair. “Looking at Simba. I think they are also talking about Nkana. So it’s a 50/50 game. They also have Zambian player in their team and we also have a Tanzanian player in our team. All we need is to prepare for them very well,” he said. Nkana beat Mozambican Champions UD Songo home and away to progress to the first round where they will face Simba. They won 2-1 in Kitwe and went ahead to win 1-0 in Maputo. On their side Mtibwa Sugar are also well prepared for the today’s clash. KCCA will be without midfielder Ibrahim Sadam Juma, who has been ruled out for over 12 weeks with a ligament tear. The Ugandan international was stretchered off the field in the 3-2 loss to rivals Express FC on Tuesday and Mike Mutebi has revealed he will be out for close to three months. The news is a big blow to Mutebi as the club begins their continent journey on Saturday with a big game against Mtibwa Sugar. “He will be out for three months,” revealed Mutebi in a pre-match presser ahead of the game against Mtibwa. “It’s a blow for us as we want to have all our players available but we ably have other good players in the position,” he added.