MINISTER for Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, has proposed that all innovative works by students of the Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) be put into practice, a move that will help to address various problems in the society. She made the call at the weekend when she toured a students’ products exhibition centre before she attended the 12th DIT graduation ceremony embracing 780 students. The products included Affordable Traffic Lights technology, which was innovated at DIT. The minister, who was visibly impressed by the efforts made by students and their lecturers said there was a need for spreading the technology countrywide so that it could be used in curbing road accidents and other related challenges in roads. “I am impressed! This is something good for our national development. DIT has come up with something big for our country’s development,” he said, adding: “I have been informed that the technology, which uses solar power is already applied in Musoma Town, Mwanza, Simiyu, Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar, I hope it will be applied across the country,” she explained. The DIT Principal, Prof Preksedis Ndomba said that the college was ready to apply the technology wherever it was needed. He clarified that the technology was blessed by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa when he visited the DIT pavilion during the latest Universities Exhibitions that were organised by Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU). According to the principal, the PM advised all municipalities in need of traffic lights to visit DIT. He said many regions had been responding to the premier’s call and that some had already placed orders for installation of traffic lights in their areas. “It means we disseminate the technology to whoever presents the req uest to the college. F or effective and timely services, DIT operates under a joint-venture system with various stakeholders, including our alumnae who have been supporting this activity with materials and financial support. Let the needy come to us,” said the DIT boss. He furthermore commented that the college was keen on expansion of training aimed at increasing expertise in innovation and entrepreneurship so as to enhance productivity in all fields. According to him, the plan also focused on improving training delivery techniques and increase students’ registration from 3755 in 2016, to 6 239 by 2021, adding: “This strategy is in line with Phase II of the National Development Plan (2016/17 to 2020/21) and the fifth-phase government’s plan of attaining industrial economy status by 2025 .” To make it possible, he added, DIT was well organised to offer innovative training through application of technology incubator and teaching factory, to enable graduates become competent entrepreneurs in various areas, including introduction of small industries.