MONEY laundering case that faces Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) employee and two foreigners was yesterday adjourned to January 4, 2019 due to incomplete investigations. Arusha Resident Magistrate Patricia Kisinda ordered the accused to Kisongo remand prison until January when the case will come for another mention. Prosecutor Innocent Njau asked the court to postpone the case against TRA’s Gasper Swai, a Portuguese, Ricardo Retto and George Mavroudis from Cyprus. The trio was arraigned last month, charged with conspiracy, tax evasion and money laundering in a deal that relates to ownership and illegal transfer of 41 motor vehicles in Arusha and a premise at Kyameto Island in Musoma. They are accused of unlawfully and jointly transferring ownership of the vehicles without attaching the transfer of ownership agreement, evading paying tax as a result. The prosecutor alleged that having conspired to evade tax, all the accused in the first and second counts, between 2016 and 2017 within Arusha region, unlawfully transferred the ownership of 26 motor vehicles from Sura Afrika Ltd to Toya Ltd, contrary to the Income Tax Act. The makes of the vehicles involved are Toyota Land Cruisers, Scania and Leyland DAF. In the third count, another State Attorney Innocent Njau told the court that on diverse dates between 2016 and 2017 within Arusha, being directors of Sura Afrika Ltd, Nyika Trade & Safari Ltd and employee of TRA, the three accused unlawfully transferred ownership of two vehicles from Sura Afrika Ltd to Tyche Ltd without attaching the transfer of ownership agreement thereby evading to pay tax. The court heard that in the fourth count, 52-year Mavroudis, the second accused and resident of Corridor Areas, Arusha, stands accused of leasing the premises on plot number 1 “Kyameto Island” –Lukuba Island Lodge in Musoma district to Tyche Ltd of Arusha for 32,000 US dollars without paying tax. The first accused, Retto, is alleged to have on diverse dates between 2016 and 2017 in Arusha, with intent to evade the legal consequences of his actions, transferred 15 motor vehicles from Sura Afrika Ltd in favour of Toya Ltd. Mr Njau claimed that the accused committed the offence knowing that the vehicles are proceeds of a predicate offence—tax evasion. The 41-year old Retto who resides at Olorien, Arusha, again features in the sixth charge of money laundering, in which Mr Marandu alleged that between 2016 and 2017 with intent to evade the legal consequences of his actions, he transferred from Sura Afrika Ltd two motor vehicles, Leyland DAFs, in favour of Tyche Ltd while knowing the vehicles are proceeds of tax evasion. Mavroudis and Swai face the seventh charge in which they are jointly accused of aiding and abetting the commission of the transfer of 12 motor vehicles, contrary to Anti-Money Laundering Act No 1 of 2012 and the Written Laws Act of 2016. The 43-year old Swai is a tax assistant officer with TRA’s Arusha Regional office and resides at Kimandolu, Arusha. All the accused are represented by advocate Regor Nkya.