VIOLENCE against women (especially sexual corruption at work places) in Tanzania today can be stopped, as there are many ways to prevent it from happening because everyone has a role to play in this struggle. If we empower women and girls, we automatically support survivors through adequate services so that they can rebuild their lives and stop violence from reoccurring in society, whether in urban or rural areas of our country. Early this month the world observed 16 days of fighting gender based violence and a score of media outlets vividly showed how the victims turn their lives around, holding perpetrators accountable, inspiring others to fight against sexual corruption at work places. TGNP Mtandao Executive Director, Lilian Liundi says that as a society we need to transform the culture by enforcing laws that protect women’s rights and changing the attitudes that condone violence against women at work places. She strongly insists that ending sexual corruption is possible, as there are proven solutions for supporting and empowering survivors to stop the reoccurrence of this violence as it has happened in other parts of the world. In Tanzania today, laws and policies are powerful tools to punish perpetrators, provide justice and services and end impunity. There are many ways that we can resist and prevent violent norms, attitudes and behaviours in Tanzania today, that perpetuate sexual corruption and everyone (including men) has a role to play in this struggle. While sexual corruption can happen to anyone, anywhere, women and girls can be tempted here, because of their need to be employed to support their families. As a society we can stand and say together that sexual corruption is not acceptable and should always be forbidden. Another area to speak about as we end the year 2018 is child marriage which has become a taboo in some of our tribes. In some parts of our country like Manyara, Mara and Shinyanga for example, some women and girls alive today were married before their 18th birthday. Child marriage is more common in West and Central Africa, where over 4 in 10 girls were married before age 18 and about 1 in 7 were married or in union before age 15. In some parts of Tanzania, such cases are also very common. Child marriage in Tanzania often results in early pregnancy and social isolation, interrupts schooling, limits the girl’s opportunities and increases her risk of experiencing domestic violence. Did you know that around 120 million girls worldwide (slightly more than 1 in 10) have experienced forced intercourse or other forced sexual acts at some point in their lives?. By far the most common perpetrators of sexual violence against girls in Tanzania today are current or former husbands, partners or boyfriends. At least 200 million women and girls alive today have undergone female genital mutilation in the 30 countries with representative data on prevalence. In most of these countries, the majority of girls were cut before age 5. Adult women account for 51 per cent of all human trafficking victims detected globally. Nearly three out of every four trafficked women and girls are trafficked for the purpose of sexual exploitation, a situation which calls for action. It is shocking to learn that an estimated 246 million girls and boys experience schoolrelated violence every year and one in four girls say that they never feel comfortable using school latrines, according to a survey on youth conducted across four regions. The extent and forms of school-related violence that girls and boys experience differ, but evidence suggests that girls are at greater risk of sexual violence, harassment and exploitation. In addition to the resulting adverse psychological, sexual and reproductive health consequences, school-related genderbased violence is a major obstacle to universal schooling and the right to education for girls. In some parts of our country, female undergraduate university students have reported having experienced sexual assault or sexual misconduct. There is also a psychological violence defined as remarks, gestures and images of a sexist or humiliating sexual nature made against women or threats and/or mobbing to which they might have been subjected. Social media is the main channel through which psychological violence is perpetrated where some women have received death, rape, assault or abduction threats towards them or their families. Among women who do, most look to family and friends and very few look to formal institutions and mechanisms, such as police and health services. Less than 10 per cent of those women seeking help for experience of violence sought help by appealing to the police. Availability of data on violence against women has increased significantly in recent years. Since 1995, more than 100 countries have conducted at least one survey addressing the issue and in Tanzania we need to do more about this. This is because more than 40 countries conducted at least two surveys in the period between 1995 and 2014, which means that, depending on the comparability of the surveys, changes over time could be better be analysed. Evidence suggests that certain characteristics of women, such as sexual orientation, disability status or ethnicity and some contextual factors, such as humanitarian crises, including conflict and post-conflict situations, may increase women’s vulnerability to violence.