POLICE in Katavi have launched a manhunt for Tanzania Forest Service (TFS) Conservation Officers over alleged shooting and severely wounding five people, four of them from the same family. TFS rangers shot and wounded the five people, accusing them of illegal entry and conducting human activities, including farming, inside the TFS controlled Msaginya forest reserve. The injured are Ikongwe villagers in Nsimbo Council, Mpanda District in the region. The victims were rushed and admitted at Katavi regional designated hospital in Mpanda Town for treatment. They were identified as Filbert Patrick (40) who sustained severe injuries on the legs and his three siblings—Joseph Patrick (27) who got injuries on the chest, Geofrey Patrick (39) who sustained severe wounds on the left hand and Januari Patrick (22) who sustained injuries on the shoulders. The other victim, Nkuba Sai was severely wounded on the left hand.Katavi Regional Police Commander (RPC) Damas Nyanda confirmed the incident, saying at the scene of incident, police had picked an empty shell that is thought to have been used in the shotgun that wounded the five persons. “I have instructed the law enforcers to arrest and interrogate all the suspects …those found to have committed the crime will be arraigned in court,” said the RPC, adding that the cause of the incident is allegation that the injured had invaded the reserve. “Several (TFS) officers armed with three shot guns arrived at the village on the day of the incident and started cutting down maize crops, alleging that the invaded portion of land was part of the forest,” said the RPC. Nsimbo Member of Parliament Richard Mbogo condemned the incident, saying there was no justification at all for TFS rangers to use excessive power over unarmed citizens. “The area, which TFS officers claim to be theirs was in fact, per 2005 Act, declared as human settlement and citizens can settle and conduct human activities, including farming…this year, Mpanda District Council resurveyed and declared it for human settlement,” charged the lawmaker. Sitalike Ward Councillor Adam Cherehani alleged that on the day of incident, after the villagers learnt that armed TFS rangers were slashing their crops, ten of them rushed to the scene and pleaded with them to stop the cruelty. “The defiant rangers continued cutting the full-grown crops, ready for harvest next month…it was at that juncture that angry villagers started jerking and booing them,” he said. After cutting the crops, the rangers reportedly jumped into their land cruiser vehicle and started shooting live bullets to people, wreaking havoc at the area as other people had to take on their heels, with five people sustaining severe injuries, claimed Mr Cherehani. One of the victims, Sai who has been admitted in ward number One at the regional hospital, speaking with difficulties, said despite their pleas, the officers mercilessly shot them.