ON several occasions when I look at the Taifa Stars in action I ask myself who selected the players and what were the criteria used in picking them to represent the country. This is because unlike many countries which try to identify soccer talents at a young age who play in open spaces in towns and villages, schools, academies and several competitions we seem to do the scouting a bit late. Talent identification is an important task in developing a successful football team, be for a club or the national team. Experience shows that by identifying players earlier, it is easy to “shape” them at an early age, and thereby produce players according to the team’s playing systems. But what is important is the criteria the coaches use to identify these hidden talents. There is general agreement among many sports experts that talent is something you have, something you are, something you can be, or something you can develop at different stages. Early indicators of talent are used to provide a basis for predicting individuals who are more or less likely to succeed at a later stage. At present, we usually wait to scout the talents while watching players at secondary school games or those playing for clubs of lower divisions. We have several centres in the country labelled as sports academies, but I doubt if many of them have qualified experts to mould the young ones in the right way to become good and talented footballers. Many clubs and football associations in some countries use scouts or coaches, most of them are those who have performed very well when they were active players with leading clubs or the national squad. Among issues seriously considered in the search of these talents are mental or psychological factors, game intelligence, mental and physical maturity, attitudes and personal qualities, as well as their family background, height, vision, agility and personality. Other issues considered include quickness in making a decision, heading, jumping, bravery, tackling, anticipation, stamina, leadership, positioning, passing, ball control and dribbling. I wonder if we consider all these aspects when we look for players who are to be recruited to join Taifa Stars. However, it is important to bear in mind that a player may have all these qualities in the pitch, but his way of life outside is also important to consider because it may later spoil his performance and that of his team mates, as well as tarnish the image of the team. It’s high time we have a good and investigative eye on players we wish to recruit them to join Taifa Stars. I appreciate the efforts made by our coaches and scouts in recruiting players who form the national team, but I think we better make a serious evaluation of the way we do it because I strongly feel there is room somewhere for improvement. Some small countries like Iceland (population 340,000) which qualified for the 2018 World Cup finals held in Russia this year is a good case study. This small European country gave a serious consideration on how best to get players who will give their country a good representation almost a decade back by promoting talents from tender age. They built 11 centres which are known as football houses which contain a full field, changing rooms, medical facilities, stands. Some of these sports houses take hundreds of spectators. As a result Iceland which had a world ranking in the 130s four years got now occupy seat number 36 and was the smallest country to ever make it to the World Cup finals. Its performance in the finals was impressive and so it was in the qualifying stages in which they drew with Portugal and Hungary and beat Austria. They didn’t only look for the right coaches and scouts for identifying young players, but also prepared facilities of developing talents of tender age with the right training programmes. I am not suggesting that we try to copy and paste the Iceland programme, but propose that we should see what will help us from this country and other places so that we can achieve what this small European country has managed in just few years after preparing an impressive soccer development programme. We can also study the recent experience of Arsenal when they used a combination of youngsters and squad players in their Europa League group match against Ukrainian club Vorskla Poltava last Thursday (November 29) and pulled an impressive 3-0 victory in Kiev, where temperatures plunged as low as -10 degrees during the match. Many Tanzanians are tired and feel humiliated when we see our country with a population of nearly 58 million people and with good climate losing or just pulling a draw in soccer even to small countries like Iceland. As I have repeatedly said in this newspaper Tanzanians are tired and partly broken heart by the performance of our national team in international tournaments. We must not despair and start showing accusing fingers to one another. Instead we should do the right brainstorming in looking for ways which will help us to get out of this mess. It is now or never.