OFFICIALS of football associations and federations at different levels have always not been comfortable on complaints of poor and biased refereeing in football, as is the case in other sports. They have been under intense pressure from all sides to take steps to ensure that refereeing decisions are as fair, consistent and accurate as is humanly possible. Over the years and more recently we have heard reports from many countries of widespread corruption in soccer involving FA and club officials, coaches, players and referees. Corrupt referees are said to have consciously and deliberately tried to distort the results of the sport contest, in order to favour the corrupting teams. Due to the ever-increasing scope of television coverage of football especially at the highest level, together with improvements in video technology, the actions of referees have never been closely scrutinised than they are in the modern-day game. The other day I saw an interesting video clip of a league match between Young Africans and African Lyon both of Dar es Salaam, which took place at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha. The clip gave an impression that the referee was the 12th man or a fan who has invaded the pitch to give moral support to Yanga. In the clip the referee could be seen raising his leg as if he was kicking a ball when a Yanga player was about to score a goal. Disgusting! This raised a heated debate in the social media, but if you want to be honest this means nothing more and nothing less except that the man who was supposed to be the judge of the game was behind the scene supporter of the Dar es Salaam club. This type of behaviour is usually expected from the fans on the terraces or those watching the game on television, but not the referee or those on the sidelines holding the flag in that match. It is generally agreed that when a referee shows love for one of the teams he is then considered to have some sort of connection to or history with the team or player and when he can’t stop his hidden support to either side it usually brings the game into disrepute and cast doubt on the conduct of the game and its results. A referee must all the time be seen to be absolutely impartial, free of any emotion other than love of the game and honest pride in doing a good job. The man holding the whistle must avoid developing love, loyalty or commitment to any player or team. He should not at any time join a team association or fan club, must not wear team regalia, colours, or replica jersey. The referee is not supposed to accept favours or rewards or souvenirs unless they are given also to teams, players and other officials. When attending games, the referee must act with complete impartiality, showing no sign of favouritism or loyalty, refraining from making any comment which shows sympathy to any side before or after the match. A referee is also supposed to disqualify him/herself from a game where a relative, friend or friend’s son or daughter is a player. But when looking closely at that clip of the Yanga- Lyon match one wonders if our referees do it. I just hope our referees will spare some time to look at the clip and also assess themselves and when one of the clubs which they adore is in action they should have the courage to disqualify themselves from refereeing a match. This is important because there will always be complaints when the referee has a conflict of interest in a match. Otherwise we will open the door to invite chaos which will have serious consequences to the development of soccer in the country.