THE Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe on Thursday this week warned the national U-17 team, Serengeti Boys against resting on their laurels after winning their respective zone, a few weeks ago, which included all countries that are in central and southern Africa. Apart from Tanzania, countries that took part in the zone were South Africa, Namibia, Angola, Zambia, Malawi, Swaziland, Botswana, Lesotho, Seychelles, Mauritius, the Comoros and Madagascar. The minister’s warning to the young and coming up team was timely because that is exactly what had befallen them early this year when they lost in the final of the CECAFA Zone soccer tournament to their Ugandan counterparts, a team they had beaten in the preliminary rounds. It is indisputable that south of the equator, Serengeti Boys are second to none but it is also indisputable that they will have to work extremely hard to beat teams from west and north Africa which have for over three decades produced their players through the soccer academy system. But while the minister’s warning is timely as the team prepares for the African Youth Championship (AYC) to be hosted by Tanzania next year (2019) which as we all know is just around the corner, the minister as the government’s representative will also have to work closely with the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) in getting top-flight friendly matches for the team. As I have already said, Serengeti Boys is already a very good outfit, but they still need to be thoroughly prepared for the forthcoming international soccer tournament if they want to do well. And, that can only be done not through residential training per se, but also through the provision of friendly matches against foreign teams that are better and stronger than our boys. One thing both the government and TFF can do is provide a residential camp in one of the European countries where they can make use of matches against lower league teams in European countries. As I had occasion to say in the past, that is what Cameroon did when they became the first African country in history to reach the quarter final of the Fifa World Cup in 1990 when the tournament was hosted by Italy. Yet the Indomitable Lions did not have, at the time, even a single player in top flight league of any of European country. Actually, they had less than ten players in second and third divisions French league. And that is what the government and the TFF now need to do, they need to get Serengeti Boys to Europe where the standard of the game is higher than what one finds in west and North Africa. Indeed, for Serengeti Boys to do well or even lift the continental crown in the forthcoming AYC soccer tournament, they need to train and play friendly matches against teams that are far better than those which would be taking part in the tournament in Dar es Salaam. In fact, that is exactly what South Africa’s Bafana Bafana did when they first won the Africa Cup of Nations, Afcon, in January 1996 when they beat Tunisia by two goals to nil in the final. Their preparations for the continental soccer tournament had been against former Fifa World Cup and Afcon winners. You don’t win the AYC by training and playing against the best teams in Africa, but rather by training and playing against teams that are better and stronger than the best teams in Africa. And that can only happen if you play against your best counterparts in Europe. For those who want to help Serengeti Boys to do well in the forthcoming AYC soccer tournament, this is the time to provide them with money that will help in enhancing their training programme. Promising Serengeti Boys the sky if they win the tournament is not going to help them. If it is financial assistance one wants to give Serengeti Boys, this is the time to do that. The boys need the money now to help them in financing their trips for friendly matches both in Africa and outside the continent. Bafana Bafana played 65 matches against top African, European and Latin American teams which included, among others, Germany, Argentina and top African teams which had won Afcon and that is why it was easy for Bafana Bafana to lift the Afcon.