TUBERCULOSIS (TB) case detection remains an obstacle despite the presence of diagnostic tools and treatment in the country. Representing the Vice -President (VP), Samia Suluhu Hassan, the Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu disclosed this during the launch of the Prisons Services gender desks, the Child Protection Policy and the Women's Network in Dar es Salaam, yesterday. According to Ms Mwalimu, out of 100 people suspected to have contracted TB, only 40 are detected, which poses a major challenge in early treatment of the disease. "Tanzania is among 30 countries with the highest prevalence rate of patients suffering from TB, for out of 100,000 people, 269 are being detected with the disease," said Ms Mwalimu. She pointed out that the country records about 27,000 cases of TB each year, meaning that 75 cases are being recorded daily. Ms Mwalimu applauded the Prison Services for acting as a catalyst in the fight against TB in the country, noting that they have provided great assistance in the detection of new cases. "Experts have explained that a person suffering from TB if not treated can infect up to 20 people each year," noted Ms Mwalimu. Commenting on the launch, Ms Mwalimu observed that it is an important milestone for the country in attaining the Sustainable Development Goals which aim to achieve gender equality. However, the move to establish gender desks in the Prison Department will reflect in the development plans which are gender sensitive. She noted that the leadership gap in the department has mainly been dominated by men, encouraging women to come up front and acquire the necessary credentials to appear at the top. "When we want to acquire equal opportunities, we must also believe in ourselves, work hard and observe diligence to come to the top. "Let's not wait for people to empower us in order to get to the top, we should empower ourselves and support each other as women, we should not let hate get in the way of our success," observed Ms Mwalimu. The Acting Commissioner General of Prison Services, Gideon Nkana who was representing the Commissioner General, said based on the importance of the gender desks, the aim of establishing it is to tackle gender issues at the department. "The structure of the desk starts from the headquarter level to all its stations, where the appointment of its country coordinators has already been done," he noted. Home Affairs Deputy Minister, Mr Hamad Masauni observed that the Child Protection Policy which has been prepared will promote the protection and rights of children in the prisons and those that come with parents.