A NATURAL scientist, Prof Jonathan Kabigumila, from the University of Dodoma (Udom) has praised the government for devising a new formula to calculate terminal and pension benefits to retirees, saying the new formula was addressing critical challenges to life for senior citizens after retirement. Speaking to reporters yesterday, Prof Kabagumila said there were basically two scenarios in tabulating retirees’ pension benefits, the first scenario being to pay more lump sum package and pay less monthly pension benefits, while the new formula provided hefty benefits after retirement than lump sum during retirement. “If you ask me between the two scenarios, which one works better for the retirees, I will opt for the new formula, which tends to ensure that life after retirement remains the same or better,” said Prof Kabagumila, a former University of Dar es salaam (Udsm) lecturer. He said in terms of policy what was more important in devising the pension benefits formula, was to ensure that retirees got both a certain per cent lump sum during retirement before embarking on ensuring they got their monthly pension. Prof Lubagumila said it was not good to react over the formula without having a proper scientific assessment to determine whether a certain formula was more effective or not. “I think those criticising this new formula fail to understand the relationship between two different variables of lump sum versus hefty pension benefits after retirement until you understand that these two scenarios you will certainly opt for the new formula,” noted Prof Lubagumila. He suggested that the new regulations needed to be translated into Kiswahili so that people were educated to understand the symbiotic relationship between the lump sum concept during retirement and the need to devise a formula that also guaranteed the sustainability of social security firms. “If you listen well, you will understand that there is a lot of distortion with some critics, saying retirees will only benefit for 12 years after retirement, of which is not true,” he said. He explained that, the retirees would benefit more and be able to access loans through their pension contributions because their monthly pension benefits after retirement would be worthwhile. Ever since the government changed the formula used to calculate pension benefits, there have been complaints especially from trade unions, saying that the new formula is an act of robbery to pensioners’ contributions and benefits.