THE Tanzania Forest Services Agency (TFS), has been instructed to sort out all challenges hindering tourists from travelling back home with wooden handicraft they purchase in the country because they have no export permit. For a long time, there have been complaints on charges that tourists have to pay at airports when they want to take home wooden artifacts they buy in the country. According to a statement that was issued yesterday by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, the Deputy Minister, Mr Costantine Kanyasu said TFS has to look for best ways to handle the matter. The concerns have it that from the practice, the government is collecting taxes twice because already there are charges that have been paid by the individuals engaging in the business. “This has been painting a bad picture of our country,” he said when addressing the TFS staff in Dar es Salaam. According to him, many tourists are buying the carvings from local shops as gifts to their loved ones in their home countries or as memories of their tour of Tanzania, therefore it wasn’t right for them to be stopped from taking the handicraft abroad. He said due to the disturbances, most of the tourists are forced to leave their purchased artifacts at the airport when they fail to produce export permits, a move that according to the deputy minister, paints a bad picture of the county. “Due to lack of the clear procedures, tourists believe that they are becoming victims for no reason,” he said, adding that TFS must make proper arrangements on export permits, given that it is done for the sake of fighting deforestation. He advised TFS to start communicating with other authorities purposely to end the challenges and minimise complaints that have been made by the tourists. Adding; “It is so easy to lose one tourist, but it takes more than ten years to get another one, so let’s continue demonstrating our hospitality to our guests”. He said it is vital for TFS to meet with handicraft entrepreneurs and other conservation institutions to discuss better ways to handle the matter. Present at the meeting, the TFS Chief Executive Officer, Prof Dos Santos Silayo assured of effective implementation of all instructions by the deputy minister for the betterment of the sector. However, he said the control of the wooden products is done according to the law, but he would consult other institutions regarding the challenges that have emerged. In May this year, individuals engaging in the business in Arusha City raised concern over losing business to their counterparts in neighbouring Kenya due to taxes imposed on tourists by authorities in the country. They said their business has been seriously affected by double taxation on their products, a practice that makes tourists visiting tourist attractions in the northern circuit to decline purchasing them. According to them, it has been a normal practice for authorities to tax tourists at the airports found to have purchased the souvenirs. “Tourists found in possession of handicraft products at the airport, such as carvings are again charged tax while we, the entrepreneurs, pay the charges to the authorities here in Arusha,” the Secretary of traders, Mr Daudi Maudi said.