THE Institute of Adult Education (IAE) in collaboration with UNCEF Tanzania has established an Integrated Programme for Out of School Adolescents (IPOSA) in the country, the Acting Director of the institute, Dr Godfrey Mnubi announced yesterday. The programme scheduled to be launched in January next year will benefit 10,000 girls and boys who are out of schools by acquiring knowledge and social study skills for their better future and the nation at large. “The programme for out of school adolescents is set to register 10,000 boys and girls, and will be given opportunities to learn and acquire knowledge and skills to enable them raise their living standards,” he said. Officiating at the 54th graduation ceremony of the Institute yesterday, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr Leonard Akwilapo called upon the institute to ensure the programme is beneficial to the targeted group. “It is my hope that the programme (IPOSA) will fully benefit the recipients in acquiring knowledge and study skills that would enable them to get out of poverty,” he said. Dr Akwilapo assured the institute of the government commitment towards supplementing the institute’s efforts in implementing their projects. The PS said that the government’s action plan is to move the country into the third world economic state through the development of industries, adding that the need for knowledge and skills for the people in Tanzania is vital. He asked the management of the institute to create and come up with more innovative ideas that would ensure all Tanzanians, mostly youths, acquire knowledge and skills in order to participate in the development of industries in the country. On the other hand, Dr Mnubi said that the country faces a challenge of having majority of illiterate people. He said the 2014 report on Adult Literacy indicates that the country has 1.5 million people who cannot read and write. He said the institute has set up various initiatives set to engage more people in acquiring knowledge and skills towards reducing the illiteracy rate. He also said the Institute in collaboration with the UNESCO is set to start a programme on Digital Literacy and other multimedia content. The programme is due to commence in January next year and will be implemented in Arusha, Kigoma and Geita regions. Dr Mnubi said that the programme will benefit young mothers and girls, including peasants. Meanwhile, 690 students graduated at the 54th graduation ceremony, and among them 308 were male and 382 female. They were conferred with degrees and diplomas in various courses.