THE prosecution has asked for more time to complete investigation into the case of two government diamond valuers Archard Kalugendo (49) and Edward Rweyemamu (50), who are charged with occasioning 2.5bn/- loss to the government. State Attorney Elia Athanas told Principal Resident Magistrate Wilbard Mashauri at the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam, when the case came for mention that they were still investigating the case. “In the circumstances, your honour, we pray for another mention date pending further investigation into the case,” the trial attorney requested. The accused, who were not represented, could not say anything on the position given by the prosecution. The magistrate adjourned the case until December 17 for another mention. In the case, Kalugendo, who is the Director of the Tanzania Sorting Company (Tansort) and Rweyemamu, the government diamond valuer, allegedly committed the offence on diverse dates between August 25 and 31, 2017, in different places in Dar es Salaam and Shinyanga regions. It is alleged that, by wilful acts, being government diamond valuers employed with the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, jointly and together, the two accused caused the government of United Republic of Tanzania to suffer a pecuniary loss of $1,118,291.43 (equivalent to 2,486,397,982/54/-). They were arraigned after the Parliamentary Select Committee on Diamonds presented its report to National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai, revealing gross irregularities in the supervision and regulation of the $100bn business. According to the report, while Ministry of Energy and Minerals documents show that the country had extracted diamond minerals weighing 1.47 million tonnes, the statement is contradicted by the report from the Tanzania Mineral Audit Agency (TMAA,) which recorded 1.51million tonnes. The minerals were valued at $367.3m against $374.6m. Despite the value of the mineral, Tanzania is the only country in Africa trading diamond at a low price of about $300 per carat compared to Botswana that trades the same at an average of $1,900. Select Committee Chairman Mussa Zungu revealed, when presenting the report further that the committee had also found records regarding royalties between 2007 and 2016. The ministry’s report shows about $18m was paid against $15m registered in the TMAA statement. “There was no explanation from both parties regarding differences in the statements, although they are all government offices,” Mr Zungu is quoted as saying, when presenting the report in question.