TANZANIA’s envoys in CAF Champions League, Simba play hosts Mbabane Swallows at Mavuso Sport Centre in Mbabane, Eswatin today with high hopes to defend their hefty 4-1 lead. Simba players, who left early Sunday for the second preliminary round leg match, said they will play a cautious game to ensure they don’t fall prey to Swallows home-ground tricks. While Simba are in tiny Southern Africa country other envoys, Mtibwa Sugar who also enjoyed a massive 4-0 first leg win over Northern Dynamo, will be in Seychelles to play their hosts in the return leg. While two Mainland teams are shield by impressive home wins, their Isles counterparts JKU and Zimamoto will be facing an uphill task at Aman Stadium against El Hillal of Sudan and Kaizer Chiefs respectively. Both JKU and Zimamoto suffered a unique 4-0 drubbing from their ‘merciless’ opponents. The Isles-based teams must score over four goals once they want to see the next round. Simba’s key players said upon arrival in Mbabane that caution is their motto in their today’s match. As expressed by the team’s Ivorian defender, Serge Pascar Wawa before leaving for Mbabane, the best way to defend is to attack. “We are not going there to defend, but to attack and win despite having a huge 3-goal advantage,” said Wawa who joined Simba this season after previously serving Azam FC and El Mereikh of Sudan. He said they know that the best prize to the fans is victory regardless they play at home or away. “We are heading for away victory, if they managed to score one goal in Dar es Salaam we can too score many goals away in Mbabane,” insisted Wawa. Simba will depend much on skipper John Bocco, Emmanuel Okwi and the ‘hitman’ Meddie Kagere upfront to ensure they get desired results. The deadly trio was part of the 21 strongman squad that left yesterday for the clash at Mavuso Sport Centre. After a hefty 4-1 victory at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Wednesday, Patrick Aussems’ side will need just a draw of any kind or avoid a defeat of more than three goals to progress into the first round of the continental top tier clubs championship. Kagere, Simba’s Rwandese international striker, said all players know that they need to finish off their opponents to ensure their passage into the next round of the tournament. “We know Mbabane Swallows are a good team and we are aware that they will be prepared for revenge, especially at their home ground but we believe we will overcome the challenge. Our technical bench has worked on the mistakes we made in the first leg and we will go there even stronger,” said Kagere. His sentiment was echoed by skipper Bocco, who said they are ready for an away challenge. Mtibwa Sugar, who are in Seychelles to face Northern Dynamo in CAF Confederation Cup, preliminary round return leg are the best placed Tanzanian team in the race.