MASTERCARD and Selcom have signed a seven year strategic partnership agreement to introduce variety of payment solutions to support the country’s goal of becoming cashless economy. Selcom Marketing Manager Sabrina Munir said the Masterpass QR enables millions of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) across Africa to accept fast and secure digital payments for the first time. “Selcom is wholly Tanzanian-owned firm, with a vision to enhance financial inclusion across Africa through strategic partnerships and alliances to facilitate the seamless movement of funds electronically at all levels,” she said. She further noted that the service addresses challenges previously faced by small business owners who were unable to afford point of sale infrastructure and were forced to transact in cash. As for consumers, this technology eliminates the need to carry cash or traditional bank cards. In collaboration with Selcom, Hub255 has organised the first of its kind Hackathon that has brought together 44 hackers with different skill sets; designers, data scientists, technology and business developers that will showcase utilisation of the Masterpass Quick Response (QR) payment Application Programming Interface (API). The API allows consumers to gain access to wide variety of payment solutions accessible on mobile money platforms or via their bank. However, one of the Co-founder of Hub255, Jones Mrusha said Hub255 is the first Tanzanian social innovation and entrepreneurship hub that is sector agnostic. “We work with start-ups that are past ideation with either a prototype or significant traction in terms of users or revenue. We provide business development support and product development skills. He added, “At Hub255 our start-ups pass through the innovation framework that requires you to have incorporated at least two sustainable development goals.” He added that Tanzanians have been enabled to transact more conveniently, quickly and securely at more than 20,000 payment acceptable locations. Already consumers, retailers and local businesses are benefiting from the introduction of Masterpass QR currently being implemented across various retailers and merchants. Masterpass QR, now available across Africa, provides a fast, convenient and secure payment solution for consumers and a reliable acceptance offering for merchants.