SIMBA Head Coach, Patrick Aussems has described his side CAF Champions League group as open and expressed confidence of reaching the last eight. Aussems’ reaction came a day after the Confederation of African Football (CAF) conducted draw for the two continental biggest club level competitions the Champions League group stage and the 2nd 1/16th round draw for the CAF Confederation Cup 2018/19. The draw was conducted at the Confederation of African Football (CAF) headquarters in Cairo, Egypt after the completion of the first rounds of the two events. Simba have been paired against eight times African champions Al Ahly of Egypt, AS Vita of DR Congo and Jeunesse Sportive de la Saoura of Algeria in group D of CAF Champions League. And, Aussems welcomed the draw with pleasure and described it as ‘an open group’ for Simba, saying fans should brace for exciting games. The Belgian tactician wrote on his Twitter page: ‘This group is so open: exciting games!!...and we have a good chance to reach the ¼ (quarter) finals so let’s be together! According to the fixture released after the draw, the group stage will kick-off on the weekend of January 11 to 13th with Simba hosting the Algerian side Jeunesse Sportive de la Saoura, while Al Ahly will host AS Vita Club on the same weekend. And, a week later, the country’s and East Africa sole envoys in the Champions League, Simba will travel to Kinshasa, DR Congo to battle it with the Congolese side AS Vita. On February 1st next year, Simba will be away in Cairo, Egypt to face the eight times champions and the two sides will meet in the return leg on February 12 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. This double header clash will be a reminder of 1985, when Simba and Ahly faced off in the continental tournament in which, Simba registered a 2-1 win in the first leg match held in Mwanza, before losing 2-0 in Cairo to be eliminated by 3-2 on aggregate. Simba will then travel to Algeria to face JS Saoura on March 8th and on March 15th they will wind up their group stage campaign by hosting AS Vita at the National Stadium. Pundits place Al Ahly as overwhelming favourites to advance from group D, as they eye their first Champions League triumph since winning the last of their record titles in 2013. Al Ahly agonisingly missed out on the prestigious accolade in the past two seasons, falling at the last hurdle after final defeats by Morocco’s Wydad Casablanca and Tunisia’s Esperance in 2017 and 2018 respectively. After losing the last two Champions League finals, Al Ahly are desperate for a ninth title and recently changed coaches, replacing Frenchman Patrice Carteron with Uruguayan Martin Lasarte. Intriguing competition is also anticipated in Group A, which features heavyweights Wydad Athletic Club, Ivory Coast’s ASEC Mimosas, 2016 winners Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa as well as Nigeria’s Lobi Stars. Reigning champions Esperance will play in Group B along with Zimbabwe’s FC Platinum, South Africa’s Orlando Pirates and Horoya AC of Guinea. Whereas group C comprises five-time winners TP Mazembe of the DR Congo, Tunisia’s Club Africain, CS Constantine of Algeria and Ismaily from Egypt. The group winners and runners-up will qualify for quarter-finals with the first group matches scheduled for 11/12 January 2019. Last Sunday, Simba matched into the group stage of the continental top tier clubs championship after a superb comeback, rallying from one goal-down to finish 3-1 against Zambia’s Nkana FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Simba qualified for the group stage after 15 years, following their 4-3 aggregate win over Nkana. They had lost 2-1 in the first leg encounter in Kitwe a week earlier.