TANZANIA has expressed commitment, including applying appropriate management measures, to preventing aquatic animal diseases, while the responsible ministry strives for maintaining 20kg per capita consumption of aquatic foods, as proposed by Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). Speaking at 2018 OIE Training of National Focal Points for Aquatic Animal Diseases in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Permanent Secretary (Fisheries) in the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries, Dr Rashid Tamatamah, said as aquaculture continued growing disease outbreaks were also likely to occur. “(This) is recognised as significant barrier to aquaculture production and trade affecting both economic development and socioeconomic revenue of the sector in many countries in the world. This situation is supposed to be prevented by applying appropriate management measures,” he said. Dr Tamatamah was opening on behalf of the Minister for Livestock and Fisheries Luhaga Mpina the a three-day training event that brought together several participants from English and French speaking countries and fisheries experts from the ministry. He pointed out that Africa had in the recent past instances of environmental management and bio-security governance issues arising from the aquatic disease outbreaks in Mozambique, Zambia and Madagascar in fish and shrimp farms believed to have spread to these countries. According to him, however, in the past 10 years, outbreaks of trans-boundary notifiable diseases have been reported. The permanent secretary said at the OIE general assembly 2015, key concerns of Africa in aquatic animal health emerged. “Poor status of knowledge on the occurrence of fish diseases, disease information, modes of their spread and potential risk factors within various water bodies and aquaculture systems are serious gaps and inhibitory factors to formulate appropriate disease control strategies in the fisheries sector,” he said. Dr Tamatamah said disease outbreaks reduced productivity, caused mortality and lowered the quality of products produced for sale. “In the circumstances,” he said, “enterprise performance drops.” “The first step in developing a strategic disease control programme,” he said “is to establish the occurrence of diseases, risks of their occurrences and their potential impact on aquatic productivity, with consumer safety and economic prosperity, therefore, becoming primary targets.” “To safeguard against the above, one must control diseases in a manner that has minimal impact on the economic viability of establishments as well as products produce,” Dr Tamatamah pointed out. He noted that the only way of doing this sustainability was by ensuring availability of adequate information, environmental integrity, animal welfare, food safety and economic gain, which was to establish bio-security. Dr Tamatamah analysed the benefits of maintaining an upper-hand over disease conditions through an effective and health fish management plan and bio-security governance as to identify, prevent and control biological hazards. There will also be increased farm production and efficiency, access to markets especially on quality assurance and certification and economic benefits, notably onto the producers, community and nation, as well as sustainable aquatic environmental management. For his part, the veterinary officer in the ministry charged with aquatic fish disease, Dr Hamis Nikuli, pointed out that such training had come at the right time as they were preparing to increase the production of fish to meet industrial demand. He explained that there had been several challenges to fisheries safety production, including a reduction in products from one year to another, while demand was still high in the country due to increased population. “Currently, we eat at least 8kg per year per one person, while the required need is at least 17kg per year. To meet demand, we need to increase the production and invest in aquaculture technology,” he proposed. In 2015, global aquaculture production reached 106 million tonnes, growing at an average annual rate of 6.6 per cent since 1995. This upward trend is projected to continue, consequently, the aquaculture sector is expected to play a significant role in food security, poverty alleviation and economic development. However, the global population is increasing and the capture of fish declines. Therefore, to maintain at least the current level of per capita consumption of aquatic foods proposed by FAO 2013 of 20kg, the world will require additional 23 million tonnes by 2020. This additional supply will have to come from aquaculture production. Hence, there is a need to establish vibrant commercial aquaculture and this implies that fish stocks and products within and between countries will also increase due to trade.