MINISTER of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Suleiman Jafo (pictured), yesterday told off District Executive Officers (DED) for dishing belittling punishment to teachers. Mr Jafo challenged the district bosses to have respect to teachers and allow them to perform their duties with dignity. “Theirs is a noble profession, therefore scenes of teachers being humiliated in public have no place in our country,” said the minister here shortly after launching the regional education strategy that seeks to improve the level of education in Arusha. The minister further launched a scathing attack on officers who become a nuisance to teachers when they seek for assistance from their offices. “These teachers travel long distances to knock on your doors for assistance, but instead of helping them, you take them in circles and give them unfulfilled promises,” alleged the minister. He challenged the DEDs to resolve the teachers’ grievances justly. In the same vein, Mr Jafo commended Arusha Regional Commissioner (RC) Mrisho Gambo’s efforts in improving the education sector, saying such initiative was worth being emulated by other regions in the country. He attributed the region’s recent performance in the national exams to the RC’s commitment in elevating the sector. Arusha ranked third in this year’s standard seven national examinations that were sat in October this year. The minister further reiterated the government’s resolve of offering free primary education in the country. In December 2015, Tanzania’s government took a crucial step by abolishing all school fees and contributions that were previously required before a child could enter lower-secondary schools. He said the abolition of the school fees is one of the most crucial actions by the government in implementing its education goals. According to the government, secondary school enrolment has significantly increased as a result. The country’s 2014 education policy hopes to increase access to primary and secondary education, improving quality which is in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s), which targets all countries to offer all children free, equitable and quality education by 2030