JANUARY is known for being the most depressing month of the year. It’s so common that scientists have even pinpointed the most depressing day. It’s January the 23rd. This is when all of the bills from Christmas come in; it’s still a week till payday. Yesterday was Christmas day, and as usual Tanzanians went all out to make sure that they are having a terrific time in celebrating the birth of Christ. Entertainment spots were filled to capacity, and beaches were overcrowded, with children having a great time in this festive day that comes only once a year. It is unfortunate that most Tanzanians, and I believe most Africans, have a short memory when it comes to the December festive season, because year in and year out, when January comes, it is met with complaints and groans from people who overspent their money. Christmas is often the happiest but also the most expensive time of the year, any good spending habits cultivated throughout the year often go out of the window once party season begins. According to financial experts, understanding your personal relationship to money and spending is the first step in recogniSing when you’re likely to lose control, and research from the University of Surrey suggests that practicing mindfulness can help you to fathom why you feel the need to spend during this festive season. Part of the reason people spend so much money during the holidays is because they’re chasing the idealised picture of the holiday that they have in their heads. It doesn’t feel fun to just set a budget and stick to it. One consumer psychology specialist and a professor of marketing once said that with the advent of the social media, people might save money by staying away from Facebook or Instagram, after all, friends and family may be posting photos of shopping bag after shopping bag or of elaborate holiday parties that they’re throwing. Tanzanians should realise that before they hit the mall or organise a big party, it can help to have a comprehensive plan in place so they k now exactly where their money is going this holiday season – that way, they can ring in the new year with celebration rather than panic.