THE Tanzania Social Security Regulatory Authority (SSRA) yesterday dismissed the claims that the authority was robbing retirees as baseless. The authority’s Director General, Dr Irene Isaka, said the new formula was aimed at improving the retirement package for senior citizens. Speaking to reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Dr Isaka said it was unfortunate that there was much misleading information about the new formula, creating unnecessary fears to the prospective beneficiaries. “The new formula has improved the minimum retirement package and every retiree gets more than 117 per cent of his total contribution to the social security scheme,” she said. She said for example, that under the new calculation formula, if a retired senior citizen contributed a total of 10 million shillings, he/she will get the whole lump sum plus 72.45 per cent of the current salary per month as pension for life. “The new formula has also improved the minimum benefit package, in the past the minimum package stood at between 20,000/- to 5 0,000/ but now stands at 100,000/- and above,” she said. On claims that a monthly pension benefit ceases 12 years and a half after retirement, Dr Isaka clarified that the pension benefit was for life, saying many senior retired citizens had lived beyond those 12 years. Dr Isaka further noted that the new formula used to compute the retirement package was far better than in the rest of the East African region, prompting many in the neighbouring countries to learn from Tanzania. She said it was absurd that most of the people, who are championing the campaigns against the new formula were either ill-informed or had a hidden agenda to mislead and misinform the general public. “If anything, SSRA was an institution geared at protecting the interests of the social Security Scheme beneficiaries and that is why we are championing reforms in the social security sector for the benefit of retirees,” she said. Dr Isaka called on all people wanting to be abreast with the formula not hesitate to contact her authority for clarifications and clear doubts and misleading information championed by a few people with their personal interests. Other hefty benefits as a part of the reforms in the social security include provision of home mortgage, death gratuity, unemployment benefit, survivors benefit and maternity benefits. Earlier, the SSRA Director of Legal Services, Mr Onorius Njole, said nothing was secretive because the entire process involved all key stakeholders, including the trade union organisations before the implementation stage.