WHAT we think we know (even as seasoned professionals) may not be the optimal. It may be a non-solution for the intended end-beneficiary. One may be “semi-illiterate”, but one is often more knowledgeable about ground realities than us. I do not need to go far. My home village is a test case. After 40 years of professional experience as a Development Economist both in-country and outside, “proffering” development solutions to various stakeholders including sovereign states, here I’m back in my home village unlearning and discarding most of what I have been “preaching” all along. Living with villagers, interacting with them every single day as I have been doing for almost a year now, exposes one to realizing how irrelevant our classroom and “office-cloned” solutions are to solving their problems. As a retiree living part-time in my ancestral village of Mkarango in Kilwa District, I see myself as a kindergarten kid when it comes to diagnosing real life situations and recommending solutions. One of the topical issues we have been discussing is how to tackle poverty through rain-fed farming, given that rain is unpredictable and that some of the farmers still practice the energy-sapping, and yet not so productive, shifting cultivation. Their considered views are enriching and intriguing, a reminder of one BBC article of January 2014 titled “It’s always good to have your preconceptions punctured”. This piece researched on the overall student performance and bottlenecks constraining the provision of quality education in Uganda. Contrary to popular beliefs such as new buildings (classrooms/teacher houses/ toilets), curriculum development, science & technology, electricity, textbooks, specialist materials etc.; it was the unlikely factor of teacher absenteeism that counted most. This was the most serious binding constraint. The undue absenteeism resulted from the teachers NOT GETTING PAID ON TIME, forcing them to take second or third jobs to pay for their living expenses. Granted, their teaching environment may not have been ideal (as expected), but teachers were willing to exert extra efforts (so they claimed), and perhaps be as innovative and proactive as they could possibly be, with or without flashy classrooms, so long as they got paid on time. This was the main takeaway. My storyline is not about quality education, but about improving the lives of poor, small-holder farmers in a typical remote village in Tanzania. Increased agricultural productivity, large or small-scale, is often linked with modern farming techniques such as improved seeds, spacing, fertilizers, pesticides, extension services, irrigation water, better farming equipment and machinery, proper storage, strengthening the capacity of agricultural research institutions etc. Indeed, these are all essential. But embracing all the modern production technologies by the poor farmers is difficult. They simply do not have the finances or the expertise. Also, because of their scattered nature, reaching them out by say, extension agents, is practically impossible. And speaking of my home village, the terrain is hilly, shifting cultivation is rampant, modern seed is uncommon, water is scarce and extension service is unheard of. Under these circumstances, what is the way out for them to combat poverty? Here is what they say. “Except for sesame which finds its way to buyers in one way or the other, the chronic problem we face is the inability to sell the little extras that we have–chickens, fruits, beans, corn, etc. because of the impassable road in both wet and dry seasons. These extras would have given us added income with which we could buy basic essentials and other needs such as clothing, shoes, uniforms, paraffin oil, sugar, salt, corrugated iron sheets, cement, agricultural inputs etc. In the recent past, as you may have noticed, there has been demand for improved sesame seeds and weed killers. Weeding, as you know, is the most backbreaking activity. So we villagers, though not all, are somehow receptive to modern ideas. What constrains us most is a road. We believe a passable road would do us wonders. We can dig our own wells or volunteer to build teachers’ houses (using whatever local materials we have). We can send sick relatives to the nearest health clinic using whatever means of transportation we have. We can live with lanterns at night. But we cannot dig a durable, passable road to connect our secluded village to the nearest passable road 12 kilometers away. Look at the mountainous terrain, the rivulets, the sticky muddy soil in the rain season. We just cannot do it alone using only shovels and hoes. This is where we want Government’s help. An accessible earth road would be a lifeline for us. We will be able to sell wherever the market allows. The last time we had the road “bulldozed” was 15-17 years ago. Now it’s more of an elephant trail. It’s lack of access road that seriously incapacitates us. It “kills” and prevents us from improving our lot, be it through farming or any other economic activity. Perhaps, we may be the only village in the whole District that is not reachable by road”. Thus, it’s accessibility that my fellow villagers perceive as their number one constraint. The rest of the factors are secondary, at least for now. I tend to agree! Little has changed since 1960 when I enrolled in Std One. I have been walking this 12-kilometer stretch throughout my life and as recent as March 2018. Villagers are even arguing that lack of a proper road is what possibly prevents female teachers from accepting teaching offers at the village primary school: “If the village is totally inaccessible, how do you expect female teachers to get visited by their relatives or evacuated in case of an emergency? How do they visit their acquaintances elsewhere during weekends for example? How too do they get their vital supplies? They cannot walk for miles as we villagers do. For us it may be routine. We are used to it. For them, it will be torture”. The bottom-line is this one: Similar to what the BBC research found out in Uganda, the villagers’ proposed solution to their sufferings is also unconventional. One would have expected the mentioning of factors that are directly associated with agricultural innovation. Their narrative reasons that transforming rural livelihoods (in their locality, and by implication, nationwide) requires an extensive and durable transportation. Permanent feeder roads (along with bridges and culverts) would be life changers. In other words, change in agricultural productivity and innovation can in fact be spearheaded by the famers themselves but allegedly only when they have reliable road network, hence, access to markets. For, year-round accessibility will enable trading and mobility. It will catalyze “commercialization” of subsistence agriculture albeit on a modest scale: fruit growing, chicken “farming”, vegetable production as well as small ruminants, all of which are money spinners. If so, no village in the country should be left unreachable. Indeed, durable accessibility is perhaps everything for the rural folk to bettering their lives. It evokes my secondary school days way back in January 1968 when I joined Form I at Mkwawa High School in Iringa after finishing Std 8 (not 7) in 1967 at Mitole Upper Primary School in Kilwa. As we rode in a Tanzania Railways Bus from Morogoro to Iringa, a hell of a journey at the time since the road was muddy and slippery; the now vibrant Ilula Township was nothing except for the Christian Missionary Church and hospital, while Ruaha Mbuyuni (Darajani), now famous for irrigable vegetables and other high value agricultural produce, was virtually non-existent. Similar townships and settlements have sprung up elsewhere in the country. Wherever we have had permanent roads built (paved or otherwise), people have always been quick to capitalize on them by engaging in “cash-cow” activities such as retailing, fuelling, catering, high value farming and various types of micro ventures. The completion of the Kibiti-Lindi road some few years back has had similar impact. The hitherto backward southern regions of Lindi and Mtwara, which were “no-go places” then, are now little economic giants and teeming with people from all over the country. A poor farmer or a poor business minded person who is assured of a market access is able to transform oneself. So, if rural infrastructure (mainly feeder roads and small bridges) is the answer to poor farmers’ plight, the implication to Government’s development budget prioritization is obvious. A larger share of the Government budget will need to be channeled to rural infrastructure which, as alleged, will induce productivity and monetization of small-holder farming. Likewise, development expenditure by the Ministry of Agriculture will need a re-cast, and at the same time, synergies for maximum complementarity with that of other Government bodies such as TARURA and District Councils. And what of the livestock keepers who encroach some villages in the neighborhoods searching for pasture? This is another topical issue that we have been discussing. “Well, we farmers confine our cultivation to specific plots of land. Wafugaji (livestock keepers) should do the same. They may as well be allocated pieces of land according to their herd sizes, within which they should restrict the movement of their animals”. I guess this may be first step towards the establishment of small, family-based “ranches” and “feedlots” in the country, potentially resolving the lingering farmer-pastoralist conflict, while improving productivity and incomes for the herders. As I said earlier, I continue to unlearn and relearn. In short, I’m getting “punctured”, and truly, I enjoy it. It’s a new experience altogether.