WHEN it comes to coining phrases or sayings, Tanzanians may be said to be on the frontline, an interesting aspect to this subject is that ours is world-famous as the springboard and promoter of the Kiswahili language. That said, however, there is a twist to our role as Kiswahili promotion role, with which our compatriots, and some beyond the borders who are Kiswahili enthusiasts have cause to pick a quarrel. It is the ‘mischief’ of ‘polluting’ the beautiful language by sneaking in words or expressions from other languages. The National Assembly, which is alternately known as the august house, has not been spared of blame on that score. In there, much concern as well as fun have been raised, and fun poked at the hybrids known variously as Kiswakinge and Kiswanglish. However, it is common place for particular languages to borrow words and even expressions from other languages, which some quarters defend and even encourage as part of the language growth agencies. Come to think of it, some words or expressions that initially belonged elsewhere and were given a Kiswahili touch became immensely popular. A good, and arguably one of the most popular is ‘Machinga’. It is derived from ‘marching guys’; meaning tough men who cover long distances on foot. Whereas the phenomenon initially related to men (and subsequently women too) who walked around hawking their variety of items, it now also applies to those conducting petty businesses at fixed spots. For a long time, the ‘machinga’ have been engaged in running battles with Municipal Council guards as auxiliary police and the main police workforce. Over time, that segment of trading has been acknowledged as essential and helpful, catering for several people. The newly launched system for issuing identity cards to the ‘machinga’ is most welcome. Most significant is the recognition of petty trading as legitimate means of earning a livelihood. We should remind ourselves that given few employment opportunities in the labour market, and the thrust placed on young people to become self-reliant, petty trading is one of the surest openings for the young generation. We are earnestly pinning our hopes on the ID scheme, whose benefits are immense. Foremost is enabling the traders to conduct businesses in specified areas. Two, contributing to the Treasure through paying taxes. Three, ceasing to perceive the ‘machinga’ as troublemakers, and thereby boosting their esteem.