PRESIDENT John Magufuli has proven to be a replica of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the Father of the Nation, in his words and deeds, Minister of Agriculture, Japhet Hasunga has observed. The minister made the comment yesterday when he visited the site where the Ministry of Agriculture offices are going to be constructed at Ihumwa area on the outskirts of Dodoma City. He said Mwalimu Nyerere was the architect of the idea of making Dodoma the government Capital City, but the idea has remained in the shelves since then until President Magufuli came to put into action. Minister Hasunga said after President Magufuli decided to officially shift the government capital to Dodoma, he directed all ministries to construct their administration blocks at Ihumwa area in the new city. He said after President Magufuli issued the directive, each ministry was given funds for the project. “I would sincerely like to congratulate the president for deciding to set aside a special area for the construction of government buildings, including all ministries, which means now the public will be able to seek and receive government services from one location,” Mr Hasunga said. The Minister said the decision to have one location for the ministries are more or less the same with ‘Villagisation Policy’ that was implemented by Mwalimu Nyerere in 1974 that sought to resettle villagers in planned villages so that the government could be accountable to them. The ministry has begun construction of office buildings for heads of department before embarking on the construction of offices for other ministry’s public servants. According to Mr Hasunga, the construction of the buildings was expected to be completed by the end of this month, but due to several reasons the project is now expected to be completed by February next year. Chief Engineer in charge of the construction project of the ministry’s buildings, Engineer Major Onesmo Njau said they expect to complete the project in February 2019. Suma JKT is implementing the project.