WHEN you first got your menstrual period, you probably thought of how long you would have to deal with it, but now that you’re older and wiser, you know “the end” is doubtless in sight, so instead, you’re beginning to wonder exactly when and at what age you can expect menopause to begin. And, as a corollary, you’d probably like to know whether there is anything you can do to be better prepared when it does occur. Menopause is a natural biological process and can happen in a woman in her 40s or 50s of age. It is the time that marks the end of your menstrual cycles and is diagnosed after you’ve gone 12 months without a menstrual period. Menopause, when it occurs between the ages of 45 and 55, is considered “natural” and is a normal part of aging. But, some women can experience menopause early, either as a result of a surgical intervention (such as removal of the ovaries) or damage to the ovaries (such as from chemotherapy). Menopause that occurs before the age of 45, regardless of the cause, is called early menopause. Menopause that occurs at 40 or younger is considered premature menopause. In the months or years leading up to menopause (perimenopause), you might experience symptoms such as irregular periods, vaginal dryness, hot flashes, chills, night sweats, sleep problems, mood changes, weight gain and slowed metabolism among others that may disrupt your sleep, lower your energy or affect your emotional health. Symptoms, including changes in menstruation, are different for every woman. Most likely, you’ll experience some irregularity in your periods before they end. Skipping periods during perimenopause is common and expected. Often, menstrual periods will skip a month and return, or skip several months and then start monthly cycles again for a few months. Periods also tend to happen on shorter cycles, so they are closer together. Despite irregular periods, pregnancy is possible. If you’ve skipped a period but aren’t sure you’ve started the menopausal transition, consider a pregnancy test. There are many factors that help determine when you’ll begin menopause, including genetics and ovary health. Perimenopause often occurs before menopause. Perimenopause is a time when your hormones begin to change in preparation for menopause. It can last anywhere from a few months to several years. Many women begin perimenopause some point after their mid-40s while other women skip perimenopause and enter menopause suddenly. There are a variety of causes that can result in menopause like; natural decline of reproductive hormones. As you approach your late 30s, your ovaries start making less oestrogen and progesterone the hormones that regulate menstruation and your fertility declines. In your 40s, your menstrual periods may become longer or shorter, heavier or lighter, and more or less frequent, until eventually on average, by age 51 your ovaries stop producing eggs, and you have no more periods. Total hysterectomy also causes immediate menopause since your periods stop immediately, and you’re likely to have hot flashes and other menopausal signs and symptoms, which can be severe, as these hormonal changes occur abruptly rather than over several years. Cancer therapies can also induce menopause, causing symptoms such as hot flashes during or shortly after the course of treatment. The halt to menstruation (and fertility) is not always permanent following chemotherapy, so birth control measures may still be desired. Menopause may also result from primary ovarian insufficiency that is; when your ovaries fail to produce normal levels of reproductive hormones stemming from genetic factors or autoimmune disease. After menopause, your risk of certain medical conditions increases like heart and blood vessel (cardiovascular) disease, osteoporosis, urinary incontinence, sexual dysfunction and weight gain. Conduct regular check up and seek medical advice if in need of an expert advice and intervention. Fortunately, many of the signs and symptoms associated with menopause are temporary. There are several ways to reduce minor to moderate menopause symptoms naturally, using home remedies, lifestyle changes, and alternative treatments. Common at home tips for managing menopause symptoms include: Keeping cool and staying comfortable by dressing in loose, layered clothing, especially during the nighttime and during warm or unpredictable weather. This can help you manage hot flashes. For many women, triggers may include hot beverages, caffeine, spicy foods, alcohol, stress and even a warm room. Using water-based vaginal lubricants help decrease vaginal discomfort. Choose products that don’t contain glycerin since they can cause burning or irritation. Staying sexually active also helps by increasing blood flow to the vagina. Enough sleep, regular exercises and practicing relaxation may help with menopausal symptoms. Pelvic floor muscle exercises can improve some forms of urinary incontinence and strengthen your pelvic floor Remember to eat a balanced diet which includes a variety of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit saturated fats, oils and sugars and avoid smoking since it increases hot flashes and bring on earlier menopause as well as other health related problems. Natural supplements and nutrients like soy, calcium, magnesium, vitamin E and D may also help limit menopause symptoms. Make midlife your time for optimizing well-being by eating well, exercising, and getting quality sleep. The healthier you are at midlife, the more successful you’ll be combating age-related changes and diseases. Note that it’s really important for you to do the right thing now and protect your health over time.