YOUNG Africans are unstoppable in the Mainland Premier League, following their 2-1victory over Mbeya City at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya yesterday. A brace from their Congolese striker, Herieter Makambo in the first half, sandwiched Iddi Selemani strike for Mbeya City and assured Yanga vital maximum points. The Jangwani Street lads maintained their unbeaten record after registering 16 league wins and two draws from their 18 games. With their closest pursuers Azam FC beaten 2-0 by Mtibwa Sugar at the Manungu ground in Turiani Morogoro on the same day, Yanga now opened ten points lead at the summit. They sit top on 50 points, while Azam remained second on 40 points. It was a scrappy and physical game as both teams opted for aerial balls. In the early opening exchanges, Mbeya City made some quick attempts but the team’s top scorer, Eliud Ambokile missed a clear cut chance to score, shooting well off target to the relief of Yanga fans and goalkeeper, Ramadhan Kabwili. Yanga fired back after Tambwe charged into the box and released a pass to Makambo but the latter’s shot was parried off by goalkeeper, Fikirini Bakari for a futile corner taken by dead ball specialist Ibrahim Ajib. Mwinyi Zahera charges looked a more likely side to score, with the striking partnership of Makambo and Burundian Ammis Tambwe threatening in the box. Makambo, who has now scored 11 goals to lead the golden boot race, put Yanga, ahead in the 16th minute, tapping home a well taken dead ball by Ibrahim Ajib, beating flat footed goalkeeper, Bakari. For Ajib, it was his 12th assist in the league so far. Then, both sides kept pushing for goals with Yanga searching to double their lead while Mbeya City was searching for an equaliser. Mbeya City ought to have level the matter through Mohamed Kapeta, who latched onto a rebound ball from Ambokile’s initial shot but he couldn’t hit the target. Mbeya City’s efforts paid off in the 23rd minute, when Selemani netted an equaliser, when a long ball in by Kenneth Kunambi found him in space to beat keeper Kabwili with a bouncing header at the near post. After conceding, Yanga regrouped and mounted pressure on their opponent’s goal but struggled to turn the few chances they created into goals. A good chance for Yanga came in the 32nd minute through Tambwe, who failed to nod in Ajib’s nice high ball cross inside the box. In the 39th minute, Frank Kobelo missed a glittering chance to put Mbeya city ahead. He failed to make contact with a powerful ball in from Selemani. Then, Makambo netted the second out of the blue, when he rose above defenders to flick home a deep cross by Paulo Godfrey three minutes before the interval. After the break, the hosts nearly pulled level in the 53ed minute after Selemani released a cross inside the box and Ambokile attempted bicycle kick flew inches off target. Yanga introduced Edward Maka, Jaffar Mohamed, Pius Buswita for Tambwe, Mrisho Ngasa and Ajib. In Morogoro, fourth placed Mtibwa Sugar who are back in league action after being eliminated from CAF Confederation Cup inflicted first defeat to Azam FC. Mtibwa goals were netted by Kelvin Sabato and Ally Makarani in the 15th and 81th minutes to see the side bagging 26 points from 15 games. In other game held yesterday also Lipuli FC was forced to a barren draw by visiting Ndanda FC at the Samora Stadium in Iringa, while at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha, African Lyon shared the spoils with Mwadui FC after their match ended in a barren draw. At the Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Ruvu Shooting beat bottomed placed Biashara United 1-0, with the lone winner scored by Emmanuel Martin in the 53rd minute.