NO one expects their office, company or even house to run on an autopilot, and if it is so then equally no one should expect their investments to monitor themselves either. As the first interesting party, you have an on-going duty to monitor your investments with the same care as you used while selecting them initially. At our office we often come across a document called ‘Strategic Plan’, which sets goals for the organization and also outlines the corresponding action plans to achieve these goals. This plan document binds each and every employee who becomes committed to the set goals and work tirelessly to achieve them. That is how the framing of ‘Strategic Plans’ is so important for any organization to succeed. But not to forget that we are living in a dynamic environment where ‘Change’ is the only buzzword which remains constant. This is what leads us to the most important provision of a Strategic Plan, which is nothing but relates to periodic review or monitoring of the plan. If this provision is missing in the Strategic Plan of an organization, then for sure such entity will miss many potential business opportunities [which otherwise could have been tapped for a benefit] and may also incur some losses [which again could have been avoided, if there was a periodical review system in place]. Nowadays why are we strongly advised to undergo regular medical check-ups? This is required in order to avoid any eventualities in future. How do such periodic medical check-ups help us? They basically lead us to identification of warning signals [if there are any] related to our body, which could prove fatal or grave if no remedial actions are initiated in time. The above demonstrates the importance of periodical monitoring of our investments, in absence of which one is intended to miss many opportunities to earn better returns and at the same time such monitoring will also assist in containment of losses in a volatile situation. While placing money, with some deliberations you may have succeeded in finding the asset allocation that matches your investment goals, time horizon, risk tolerance, and financial situation, but that doesn’t mean you can sit back and let your investments take care of themselves. Instead you need to perform periodic reviews. If you find that over time your investment mix has veered from its target allocation, you’ll need to rebalance your portfolio at every such occasion. Suppose you decided a year ago that your desired allocation was 60 percent equity (stocks) 40 percent debt (fixed income securities). But a bullish market over the past 12 months has caused the stock portion of your portfolio to grow to more than 70 percent of your total allocation. That means your portfolio’s exposure to stock market risk is greater than what you had initially intended and thus you need to rebalance it. Keeping an eye on your portfolio’s asset allocation also ensures that your portfolio is closely aligned with your own investment objectives. If you allow your original allocation to get off kilter, you’ll move out of your risk vs. reward comfort zone. That’s because: if your stock holdings rise above your original allocation, your risk exposure increases. And conversely if your stock holdings fall below their target, your future growth may be lower. When you rebalance your portfolio, start by figuring out how much you plan to reallocate. If it’s more than 10 percent of your portfolio, and you’re moving into a more aggressive portfolio, make the shift gradually, perhaps over the next few months or even years. If you’re moving into a more conservative portfolio, you can make the change more quickly. Therefore, it pays to review or monitor one’s investment portfolio periodically. However, the applicable periodicity for a person will depend on the nature of his/her investments. If somebody’s exposure to equity is on the higher side, say 60-70 per cent; then it is important to study the movements of a stock market more regularly - may be on a daily or weekly basis. On the other hand if somebody’s exposure to fixed income securities is higher, say 70-80per cent, [this normally is the case for risk averse investors], then portfolio monitoring cum rebalancing exercise can be done at an ease. Thus monitoring of one’s investment portfolio is like undergoing medical check-up for a person. During such investment monitoring exercise you need to find credible answers to some of the prominent questions such as: (a) whether my investment portfolio is in line with my set financial goals in life?, (b) during the period under review, which investments have performed above benchmark and which ones have performed below the set benchmark; (c) identify the possible reasons for poor performance – wherever applicable; and finally (d) what remedial actions are needed such that going forward, my investments will outperform the set benchmarks and not otherwise [this is nothing but a portfolio re-balancing exercise]. However the moot question remains: I presume you are an expert in the running of your office or company, that’s what you do, but probably you may not be as expert or proficient in the field of investments as desired, then how do you monitor your investments effectively? I think this should not be an excuse to abandon the exercise of periodical investments monitoring. As we go to a qualified doctor for our medical check-ups, then why do we shy away from seeking expert advice from a qualified investment advisor or stock broker, if there is a need to do so? Whatever be the case, it is imperative on the part of an informed & smart investor to undertake periodical investments monitoring exercise religiously. If not, then at some later stage please do not blame the external factors for your investments not performing well, as the blame for such a situation will squarely be yours. Before I close let me take this opportunity to wish all my avid reader a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. Cheers!!!