BUSINESS Registrations and Licensing Agency (Brela) has warned unscrupulous people, who pose as its agents and charge money from people wanting to register companies and businesses. Speaking in Dar es Salaam at the weekend, Brela Acting Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Emmanuel Kakwezi said his office had discovered the presence of such conmen, who were doing illegal job, adding that Brelahad no agent working on its behalf. “Tanzanians should be warned of the presence of such criminals, who pose as Brelastaff and charge a lot of money from people, who wanttheir companies or businesses registered,” he said. Mr Kakwezi pointed out that his office had received many complaints from the customers, who were the victims of such fraud, adding that this hadled to losses of money and time for their customers. “I would like to call on our customers to ensure the online application system introduced by Brelawith the objective of easing an application process and saving customers from falling prey to conmen,” he noted. He added that Brelainformation was available through its website (www.brela.go.tz), where customers could find proper contacts for Brelawas crucial for avoiding dealing with conmen. “We condemn all those, who use our name to get money unlawfully because they tarnish our name. Stern measures will be taken against them,” he insisted. He noted that the matter had led to the loss of government’s income and delays in the implementation of development projects and establishment of businesses, which were bad for economy. He added that Brelawas not ready to see that happening any further. “I call upon our customers to ensure they get all services from our offices or get our services online and avoid using middlemen, who pretend to work on our behalf. Brelahas no agents,” he said. He called on Brelacustomers to update their information on the online registration system (ORS) to have reliable and up to date records given the fact that some companies had gone through a change of leadership, ownership and names, among others.