TANZANIA will soon become the leading electricity producer and supplier in East Africa, thanks to construction of the largest hydropower project in the region. The country’s power supremacy is envisaged in the next three years, after completion of the mega Rufiji hydropower generation project at Stiegler’s Gorge in the Selous Game Reserve, Coast region. “The project is planned to produce 2,115MW and will increase the country’s electricity production capacity by 2021,” the Energy Minister, Dr Medard Kalemani said in Dar es Salaam yesterday. He made the statement at the State House during the signing of the contract between the government and Egyptian Arab Contractors for the project construction. At the signing ceremony, which President John Magufuli and Egyptian Prime Minister Moustafa Madbouly attended as well, Dr Kalemani named the second largest hydropower generation project in East Africa as Uganda’s Bugari Dam that has the 300MW capacity. “In Africa, the Rufiji project will be the fourth biggest dam, with the first being Renaissance Dam in Ethiopia, which is under construction and is expected to produce 6,450MW upon completion in 2022,” he said. According to the minister, the second largest project is Mambira Dam in Nigeria that produces 3,050MW ahead of Ethiopian Shaika Dam that produces 2,160MW. The Aswan Dam in Egypt, with 2,100MW comes fifth in the ranking, beating Raula Dam in Angola, which produces 2,066M, said Dr Kalemani. He said the sealed deal has elevated Tanzania to the 60th position in the ranking of 70 countries with the biggest hydroelectricity projects. The world’s biggest project is Three Gorges of china that produces 22,500MW, with Itapu Dam in Brazil that produces 14,000MW coming second. Ghezouba Dam with 13,860MW in China also is the third. “The country’s target is to produce 5,000MW by 2020 and 10,000MW by 2025 in a grand plan to guarantee availability of sufficient power to meet the demand of industrialists, domestic consumers and all other development projects that need power, including the state of the art Standard Gauge Railway (SGR),” he noted The Stiegler’s Gorge project is perceived as the strategic project that complements the government spearheaded industrialisation drive. Its water reservoir will be 100 km long and 25 km wide, with the storage capacity of up to 35.2 billion cubic litres of water at once. “It covers an area of 914 square kilometres…” said Dr Kalemani, hinting that the constructed wall will be 1,025 metres long and 131 metres high. Besides increasing the country’s power supply capacity, the project will support irrigation activities and boost other development activities. “We will be selling electricity to neighbouring countries,” he said. Speaking at the event, Speaker of the National Assembly Job Ndugai said parliamentarians were supporting the project, assuring that they will continually allocate the budget to complete the construction works on time. “This project is in the great interest of the country and as law makers, we support it…I have been at the project site and I’m sure that the dam will bring more benefits than the challenges that have been mentioned,” argued Mr Ndugai.