IN today’s competitive global trade arrangement, Africa is striving to maximize the positive social and economic power of aviation by working together to promote safe, sustainable and efficient air connectivity. Member countries of the African Airlines Association (AFRAA) and aviation stakeholders have now resolved to enhance their efforts for the implementation of the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) and to address various challenges hampering the African aviation industry from realising its potential. To date, 27 African governments have committed to SAATM and the International Air Transport Association (IATA) encourages the remaining 28 African Union member states to come on board quickly to enjoy the potential benefits of a connected African economy. Experts in the aviation trade say that the low density of the African intra-continental network makes it impossible to realise the potential benefits of a connected African economy. They say if implemented, SAATM–launched in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in January--will give Africa the potential for economic transformation in the belief that history has shown that opening markets leads to rapid advances in connectivity. Member states of the African Airlines Association (AFRAA) and aviation stakeholders met early this month in Rabat, Morocco, during the body’s 50th Annual General Assembly which brought together 463 delegates from 61 countries under the theme “Strengthening African Aviation in a Liberalized Environment.” Chief Guest at the assembly, Moroccan Minister for Tourism, Air Transport, Handicrafts and Social Economy, Mohammed Sajid, told the delegates that “liberalisation of the air transport market in Africa ought to be supported by all the relevant stakeholders, so that it may translate into accelerated development, enhanced competitiveness and a better service offering in the sector. It would also help to remove the many restrictions confronting the sector, whether in terms of regulations, tariffs, airport services, or any other areas.” AFRAA president and Chief Executive Officer of Royal Air Maroc Group said that the 50th edition of AFRAA’s AGA was “taking place at a time when the African air transport sector is at the cusp of a great revolution, which will undoubtedly signal an important turning point in the history of air transport in our continent. We hope that the political will currently expressed for the establishment of a Single African Air Transport Market will allow us to fulfill our common destiny, to see all African states remove protectionist barriers, leading to air traffic growth on our continent, carried mainly by African companies, in the interest of the economies of our countries and our fellow citizens.” Addressing the assembly AFRAA Secretary General Abdérahmane Berthé, said: “Aviation is a critical economic driver, therefore it is incumbent upon all stakeholders to ensure the sector realizes its full potential. Key to this is unlocking the immense potential of our able and youthful workforce. In this regard, our assembly has called upon the global aviation sector in Africa to discuss existing barriers for gender equality in aviation and to share best practices, programmes and initiatives aimed at overcoming these barriers.” The Assembly also called African Governments to facilitate youth development in aviation through affordable training and education for a safe and secure aviation in Africa, and encouraged member Airlines to prioritize youth development through their actions and put in place necessary programmes to bring this about. Among the resolutions, the Assembly called upon African governments to reduce taxes, charges and fees especially those related to fuel and passengers and avoid imposing airport development levies on passengers. Additionally, ministers responsible for civil aviation should update their counterparts in charge of taxation, in particular finance ministers, on the details and rationale behind ICAO’s policies on taxation. Further, airports were urged to adhere to ICAO principle of user consultation in the determination and fixing of charges and fees and to ensure that they are commensurate with the level of service delivered. African governments were also called upon to re-invest taxes relating to air travel in developing and equipping airports as recommended by ICAO. At the Assembly AFRAA’s Secretary General presented the AFRAA 2017 state of the industry report which provided an overview of the environment the African aviation industry is operating in with a detailed view of the performance of African Airlines, key challenges, and growth prospects for the sector. In 2017, Airlines globally posted US$38 billion after-tax profit representing US$9.27 average profit per passenger. The African industry improved profitability but is still making a net after tax loss of $100 million. For AFRAA member airlines, the intercontinental passenger market segment remains the biggest with 49.5 per cent of all passengers. The domestic market segment represented 23.4 per cent while the intra-Africa market represented 27 per cent. During the year, Africa’s traffic share was 2.2 per cent of the global market. This figure clearly indicated that there is much room for growth. However, some positive figures have emerged with data showing that in 2017, four (4) countries exceeded 10 million passengers: South Africa, Egypt, Morocco, Algeria. The report however noted that, notwithstanding the challenges faced by African airlines, including the high cost of operations in Africa and market restrictions in a number of countries, the industry has much to look forward to. Indeed, the growth rates of African population and African economies are drivers of a huge traffic growth. The African population will raise to 2.5 billion which equals to 26.6 percent of world population in 2050. African aviation supports $55.8 billion of economic activity and 6.2 million jobs. To enable aviation to be an even bigger driver of prosperity across the continent, AFRAA member countries must work closely with governments, according to Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s Director General and Chief Executive Officer.