MAIL delivery at snail-pace is here to prevail despite advancing digital technology that is networking the globe. And, to ensure that postal services remain relevant, Tanzania Posts Corporation (TPC) says it’s determined to digitally network all villages in the country with postal services and related financial services. The public postal operator intends to use all village and ward offices countrywide to take postal and parcel services right to the door steps, with remote offices installed with electronic equipment and Points of Sale to ensure each and every citizen accesses postal services. According to TPC Postmaster General Mwang’ombe Hassan, the corporation has started purchasing relevant equipment to aid the process while also waiting for funds from the central government to extend services in all villages across the country. “We are not going to sit down and wait to become obsolete as a result of advancing technology and mushrooming courier services, we are fighting back to remain afloat,” said Mwang’ombe during a meeting that deliberated on postal related financial services. Tanzania is hosting the workshop on the role of postal financial services in fostering financial inclusion and socio-economic development that started yesterday and ends tomorrow. The main objective of the Pan African Postal Union (PAPU) organised workshop is to sensitise participants on the role of posts in promoting financial inclusion for national socio-economic development, create opportunity for experience sharing and benchmarking on best practices. The African Union Commission (AUC) and Universal Postal Union (UPU) also co-organised the meeting that aims at also ensuring that capacity building is enhanced in postal financial services. Longido District Commissioner Frank Mwaisumbe graced the meeting on behalf of Arusha Regional Commissioner Mrisho Gambo, underscoring the need of postal services to employ digitally savvy young to facilitate their entry into the new technological era. The meeting participants are being drawn from the ministries, regulators and designated operators involved in the innovation and deepening of postal financial services. The meeting also seeks to address the need to upgrade postal network with ICT to deliver financial services; establish digital financial services and expand the range of postal financial services, from savings and payments to a fully diversified portfolio. Currently, PAPU has 45 member states, including Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Central Africa Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cô te d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon and Gambia. Others are Ghana, Guinea, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.