THE Technologies for African Agricultural Transformation (TAAT) in collaboration with the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and Tanzania Agriculture Research Institute (TARI) implement a strategic project to increase cassava production in the country. This follows demand for food and cash crops in the world market. Tanzania is the 12th largest producer of cassava in the world and the sixth in Africa after Nigeria, DRC, Ghana, Angola and Mozambique, with an annual production estimated at 6.8 million tonnes. The project is expected to scale-out the value chain in proven technologies such as improved high yield varieties and innovative processing techniques to transform cassava into an industrial crop and address setbacks facing cassava farmers. According to TARI Director General, Dr Geoffrey Mkamilo, the initiative will address key challenges facing cassava farmers in the country, including lack of clean seeds of improved varieties, high post-harvest losses due to limited processing and lack of markets. “This initiative targets to address the challenges facing cassava producers and transform the crop into a key commercial crop to improve the income of smallholder farmers and support the country towards achieving the Development Vision 2025,” he said. According to him, under this programme, technological advancement and technical support will enable the private sector to invest in profitable cassava production and processing. He said the technologies to be introduced by the initiative would include processing of cassava and make varied value-added products of high financial returns. “These will include making chips, starch and flour, which can be further processed and become sweeteners, adhesives, biscuits, noodles, breads and cakes,” he stressed. While cassava is the second most important subsistence food crop after maize, with 84 per cent of the total production in the country used for food consumption, farm level productivity remains poor. Agriculture experts say that future demand of cassava in Tanzania is projected to be between 530,000 and 630,000 tonnes and potential drivers of increased local demand are milling, animal feed, beer and beverages, sweets and snacks, starch manufacture, textile factories, paper mills and hardboards, paint and pharmaceuticals. Statistics show that annual cassava production contributes to at least 5.5 per cent of the total cassava production in the world and 14 per cent of Africa’s production.