THE Open University of Tanzania (OUT) is set to apply its research results to small-scale miners, starting with mining areas in Geita Region after realising the contribution of small-scale miners to national economic growth. OUT Director of Postgraduate Studies, Prof Hosea Rwegoshora, said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that research findings would help direct small-scale miners know how they could easily access markets through the use of information technology (IT) in their businesses. He was speaking during the Second International Doctorial Research Scholars Summit 2018, which gathered researchers, both students and lectures from various East African universities for knowledge and experience sharing. The summit, which is being held twice a year, also aimed at encouraging researchers to put their findings into practice, so that all problems facing society could be solved professionally. “We consider the importance of using research results in all spheres of life. Application of the findings is one of the factors that have contributed to rapid economic growth in many developed countries, including Japan and China. We are going to start with the mining sector in Geita Region, although other findings are in progress,” he noted. He further revealed that OUT in collaboration with other universities had also embarked on an “Alternative Family-Based Child Care” research project in Chanika, Dar es Salaam, and Tumbatu in Zanzibar, researching on how children, who lost parents during their childhood had been taken care of. Prof Rwegoshora said they developed this idea because the country needed enough and healthy human resources in all fields to take care of all children. According to him, it is a three-month research project, whose results and recommendations will be ready next month with advice on how the government, religious institutions and members of the public at large can support children, who have lost parents. The results will also recommend proper ways of taking care of children with disabilities and those suffering from chronic diseases, such as HIV/Aids. PhD student from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), whose research topic was “Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) Use to People with Low Income” Editha Ndunguru commented that lack of basic knowledge in some researchers was one of the reasons for incompetence among many researchers. He clarified that it was because some universities did not offer research studies at undergraduate level.