THERE is a famous English phrase, ‘parenting is not a destination, but a journey. For any journey, we need to be prepared.’ Positive discipline advocate, Dr J. Durrant challenges every parent to ask these questions here below. ‘Imagine your child is all grow up. You are about to celebrate your child’s 20th birthday. Close your eyes and imagine what your child will look like at that age. What kind of person do you hope your child will be at that age? What kind of relationship do you want to have with your child at that age?’ Long-term parenting goals take time to achieve – usually many years. But they are the heart of parenting. These are goals every parent wants to achieve by the time their children are grown up. And often short-term goals conflicts with long-term goals, for instance. It’s late. Your child must eat, get dressed and leave the house for school on time. You may be tempted to shout at – or hit your child to get him move faster. Each time you get frustrated, remember you have an opportunity to teach your child how to manage stress, communicate respectfully and handle conflict without hitting. And how to be considerate of other people’s feelings. By copying well, you show him how to cope with his own frustrations. We mostly respond to short-term parenting challenges in many ways that blocks our long-term parenting goals. Dr Durrant says that yelling and hitting will only cement your child in the opposite direction of what you want her to learn in the long run. That every time you react this way, you lose a golden opportunity to show your child a better way. Just give it your considered opinion, when you yell at your child, are you teaching him how to solve problems? To raise a kind and helpful child, thoughtful and courteous child, a wise decision maker who is not only honest but also trustworthy, you must learn and unlearn on how to keep your ‘cool’. Teach yourself to be a loving parent without becoming too ‘loving’ to spoil your child. Learn to communicate calmly without yelling at your child. Learn to remind yourself of your long-term opportunity every time you are about to lose your ‘cool’. Create that warm homely environment that will make short-term goals compliance doable while teaching long-term values. In such a climate, children want to please their parents. One of the suggested ways to do this is by playing with your children, lough together and have fun. Recognise their little efforts and acknowledge their little successes, etc. For comments and/or inquires please call 116 National Child Helpline. This is a toll free service available across all networks in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar.