THE Mainland Premier league thrills is at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium where leaders Young Africans face African Lyon in a match the former champions will use to extend their unbeaten run. Mwinyi Zahera charges have played 16 games of the first round without a loss, collecting 44 points from 14 wins and two draws. It will be their 15th victory if they defeat African Lyon and as well maintain their unbeaten run. Yanga who arrived in the Northern highland town on Tuesday ahead of their today’s game are, however, going to miss the services of some key players in game expected to make the venue full packed. Arusha will watch the Premier League match after missing its thrills for a long time. Yanga who have currently proved to be unstoppable will miss the services of Vincent Andrew, Raphael Daud and Thabani Kamusoko who are nursing injuries as well as Mrisho Ngasa and Feisal Salum who are serving match bans. They will also miss their Congolese midfielder Pappy Tshishimbi who has gone back to Congo to attend family matters. They will, however, benefit from a return of of their overlapping left-back Gadiel Michael who is back in action from injury and Mohamed Issa who was suspended. But missing some of the key players was not a thing to the Jangwani street boys as they managed to claim a 3-2 victory over Ruvu Shooting in their previous game with the winner netted in the dying minutes by striker Heritier Makambo. And in today’s match, the Congolese striker Makambo who seems a lethal striker in front of the goal, has already netted nine goals to tie with Mbeya City’s Eliud Ambokile and Ruvu Shooting’s striker Said Dilunga at the top of the Golden Boot race standings. He is targeting to overtake his close challengers if he scores against Lyon today. However Yanga should be cautious as their opponents Lyon who are settled in relegation zone at the 18th position with 12 points, will be looking to stun them and break their unbeaten run. Lyon who have also lost their creative midfielder Haruna Moshi to Yanga will likely be happy to revenge for the loss. Although Lyon are going into the match as underdogs, will be hard to beat at their home ground. Victory to either side will be a great gift to their supporters in this coming Christmas which will be celebrated on Tuesday next week. Yanga are currently at the top of the league with 44 points followed by Azam FC with 40 points from 16 games while Simba are third.