RELIGIOUS leaders have reiterated the importance of members of the public to cooperate with the government in fighting infringement of human rights and attitude that leads to moral decay. By doing so, according to them, there will be continued peace and unity that guarantee continuity of humanity and dignity. The clerics made the remarks on Monday as they marked the 70th anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). Speaking at the event, Bishop John Ndimbo of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Mbinga said the church is paying much attention on ensuring promotion and protection of human rights, which is why it is providing social services like education and health services that support the rights to education as well as the right to life. "It is a duty of every one of us to ensure that human rights are practiced in our communities despite existence of some which lead to moral decay such as homosexuality," he said. The cleric maintained that homosexual acts are against human dignity and as the church they will continue preaching against it. His thoughts were echoed by members of Ulamaa Council of the Islamic religion, Sheikh Issa Othman, who noted that homosexuality is among the immoral acts that are prohibited in the Islamic holy book, the Quran. "We are taught to build strong families that have mutual undertakings and respect to each other, also we need to value the dignity of every member of the society, that is a starting point on protecting the rights of others," he said. On her part, the Advocacy and Policy Analysis Officer from the Christian Council of Tanzania (CCT), Ms Gloria Mafole said religious institutions have a big role to play in facilitating the implementation of the UDHR. She said all religions have to ask themselves what they have done so far in preaching about rights of individuals and condemning acts that contribute to moral decay. Earlier, the Secretary General of Tanzania Episcopal Conference (TEC), Father Charles Kitima said there are circumstances that don’t guarantee provision of all rights at once.