THE Weights and Measures Agency (WMA) has continued to conduct impromptu inspection in various cashew nut farming areas to ensure farmers benefit from it. WMA Coast Region Manager Evarist Masengo said his agency had so far verified and certified 109 weighing scales and marked them with government stickers. According to him, the region has 95 agricultural marketing cooperative societies (Amcos) in seven districts: Mkuranga Amcos 39, Kibaha (8), Bagamoyo (3), Chalinze (3), Kisarawe (2), Mafia (1), Rufiji (13) and Kibiti (26), which have been inspected. Mr Masengo noted that WMA would continue conducting inspection of weighing scales of Amcos and weighbridges to crosscheck verification results. “This year, we tried to educate farmers to curb unscrupulous traders, who tamper with the scales and exploit farmers. Section 340 of the Weights and Measures Act requires WMA to verify, certify, calibrate and conduct impromptu inspection anytime in case there are complaints from farmers,” he noted. He also said according to the Act, weighing scales were supposed to be verified after every 12 months contrary to that the scales were not allowed operating. Mr Masengo explained that before the commencement of cashew nut season, WMA must ensure all weighing scales used for weighing cashew nuts were verified. He added that by then the region had three large godowns - Tanita in Kibaha District, which collected cashew nuts from Kibaha Urban, Kibaha Rural, Chalinze, Bagamoyo and Kisarawe. Another godown collecting cashew nuts from Mkuranga District, which has the highest number of Amcos (39), is in Mwanambaya and the third one is in Kibiti District, which collects cashew nuts from Amcos in Kibiti and Rufiji districts. For their part, cashew nut farmers thanked WMA for continued impromptu inspection to verify weighing scales before the commencement of the season. “We used to work hard so that we may benefit from it, but some of the buyers would exploit us because we had no knowledge, which scale was defective or not. We are very happy and hope that from now onwards we won’t be exploited again. We thank the government as for the first time Coast Region will start using a godown receipt system,” explained a farmer from Kitomondo. WMA Director of Technical Services, Stella Kahwa commended WMA Coast Region for ensuring farmers and consumers were protected. Ms Kahwa noted that the industrial economy drive should go hand in hand with the use of accurate weights to stimulate production of raw materials. “This impromptu inspection in Amcos continues in Lindi, Mtwara and Ruvuma regions to ensure all weighing scales are verified before the season starts,” she added.