TANZANIA’s agri-business stakeholders have expressed gratitude to the Norwegian government for offering 3 million US dollars (8bn/-) to help in addressing problems overwhelming Tanzanian smallholder farmers. Managing Director of Petrobena East Africa Limited, Peter Kumalilwa said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that agri-business stakeholders in the country are very grateful for the support they received from Norway which will help to boost production. “This is a unique opportunity for us working directly with farmers. We know the entire production process of small farmers is fraught with small, prohibitive problems; they have unreliable supply chain of inputs, they lack training and extension services, while facing marketing constraints. All these frustrating limitations damage small farmers’ wellbeing. If the money offered by Norway will be used gainfully, it will go a long way in solving all these constraints,” he said. Mr Kumalilwa said peasants were the biggest force in which the nation depends on to transform Tanzania into a middle-income country by 2025. "Smallholder farmers feed this nation and help it earn foreign currency. They produce raw materials for our industries, therefore they deserve serious attention,” he argued. Petrobena East Africa Limited, the main distributor of Yara fertilizer, is one of the companies which form a strategic group of agri-business stakeholders in Tanzania. The company specializes in distribution of fertilizers and farm inputs to rural small farmers. In an agreement signed recently between Norway and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), the former pledged to give Farm to Market Alliance three million US dollars that will help small farmers improve their lot. Mr Kumalilwa describe the money as a big support to Tanzania’s small farmer because, he said, it will help them get timely farm inputs through Farm to Market Alliance and link them to markets. Farm to Market Alliance Chief Operations Officer, Ms Shanoo Saran, said they plan to use the Norwegian funds to reach 1,500,000 in the next three years. “We are here to help farmers engage in efficient farming and reach markets,” she said, adding that on the whole crops produced by small farmers do not meet market bench marks. Post-harvests losses are huge because peasants cannot reach markets,” she said, adding that their programme seeks to solve those problems.