FOR most of us breathing occurs so automatically that we barely think about the process, why we need it and how it happens. However people who have asthma need to be constantly aware of their breathing –is it occurring normally or is becoming difficult? Asthma is a physical reaction by the body, which causes the airways to constrict and make breathing extremely difficult. It can be a very scary experience and in severe cases, it can be life threatening. There is no cure for asthma but we can try to regulate some of the things that can trigger asthmatic reactions. Some symptoms of asthma can be set off by strong emotions like stress or excitement. Some medicines can also cause symptoms. But most triggers for asthmatic attacks are environmental – that is to say the things outside the body. If your child is asthmatic, it is vital that you are aware of their immediate environment and the triggers present so you can reduce exposure as much as possible. This way, you can reduce the number of attacks that they have and the severity of the attacks when they occur. So what are these triggers? Temperature change can increase the symptoms of asthma and may even bring on an attack. As the air temperature changes, the density and composition of the air changes and this can affect asthmatics, who are sensitive to these changes. It is important to have extra clothing, extra beddings and to try and keep the home and sleeping area a constant temperature. Dust and dust mites can also trigger asthma attacks and cause persistent asthmatic symptoms. Dust mites are creatures that live off our dead skin cells.They live in our beddings, sofas, cushions and similar house hold furnishings. The faeces of these dust mites are microscopic and float in the air and other dust particles and can cause severe asthmatic reactions. Although it sounds a bit disgusting, every home has dust mites to some degree. Wash all soft furnishing and beddings regularly to reduce dust mites and dust. Direct sunlight kills mites so laundry should always be hung in the sun. Dusthard surfaces with a damp cloth instead of using a dry cloth or brush, which sweeps dust into the air. Good screens should be used on doors and windows to minimize the amount of dust and pollen entering the home. Avoid clutter and keep everything in the house dry and fresh to avoid growth of fungus or mould,which also release fine particle spores into the air and increase asthmatic symptoms. Pets and animals can exacerbate asthma symptoms; particularly cats, dogs and chickens. These spend a lot of time outside and gather a lot of pests from the ground and sometimes they use dust as a way to get rid of their own pests. If a pet is much loved and lives in the house they should be given regular baths and not allowed to stay in common living areas. Smoke chemicals and fumes can also cause difficulty in breathing. Always be aware of local air pollutants, exhaust fumes, smoke from fires, chemicals from furniture or clothes, perfumed air fresheners, bug sprays etc. All of these things release particles into the air that we eventually all breathe in and are potential triggers for asthmatic attacks. Having an understanding of what triggers asthma is the most important weapon that you can have in fighting it. If your child is asthmatic it is important for him/ her to be aware of and understand these triggers.. For comments and/or inquires please call 116 National Child Helpline. This is a toll free service available across all networks in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar. Facebook: Sema Tanzania; Twitter: @SemaTanzania or visit our website: www.sematanzania.org