THE Nutrition Summit held in Nairobi about two months ago is bearing fruit, as stakeholders are giving feedback on their areas of interest and further engagement around scaling up investment in businesses working to improve access to nutritious foods in Africa. A Post Event Report made available to the ‘Daily News’ from organisers of the first ever Nutrition Africa Investor Forum (NAIF) unveiled that the Forum has proved a great platform for re-framing the dialogue around nutrition, raising its profile as an impact investment opportunity. Mr Fokko Wientjes, the Vice-President Nutrition in Emerging Markets of Royal DSM and Mr Greg Garrett, the Director – Food Policy & Financing for the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) said in their joint statement that the organisers have been able to showcase to businesses and investors that investing in nutrition can provide healthy returns. “The feedback we have received for the different sessions has been excellent while delegates have also expressed interest in further engagement around scaling up investment in businesses working to improve access to nutritious foods,” said the officials, of the outcome of the two-day meeting that attracted more than 250 participants from across Africa and beyond. NAIF that was co-organised by GAIN, Royal DSM, SUN Business Network and African Business magazine was graced by former Tanzania President, Dr Jakaya Kikwete, had 10 unique sessions over the course of the days, including Scaling Up Nutrition Pitch Competition and the Nutrition Dealroom. Leading business leaders, policy makers and prominent nutrition campaigners joined over 200 delegates to launch the first NAIF in Nairobi from October 16th to 17th. Impact investors and high-level representatives from the World Bank, European Commission, International Finance Corporation, Kenya Commercial Bank, Graça Machel Trust and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation joined the influential gathering focused on unlocking the potential of small growing businesses, working to improve the nutritional quality of the food system across Africa. “The Forum marked an important milestone in the roadmap towards reframing the dialogue around nutrition, raising the profile of nutrition as an impact investment opportunity and showcasing businesses that can improve access to nutritious food on the continent. NAIF offered a valuable overview of investments in nutrition as well as current financing models while also identifying the major investment gaps and hurdles faced by businesses. The Forum forms part of GAIN’s ongoing programme to leverage private sector knowledge, technology and financial resources across the entire food system to make nutritious foods more accessible across Africa,” the Post Event Report read in part. Mr Wientjes and Mr Garret said creation of more opportunities to raise nutrition-themed investment funds for growing small businesses working to increase access to more nutritious foods was already operational and that GAIN offers such businesses services that help unlock access to capital and key sector expertise to introduce and scale up their products or services.