THE Zanzibar government has announced a plan for putting formal boundary corner marks or survey beacons, marking divisions between ‘Shehias’ for multiple purposes in achieving economic and social development. The new plan was announced by the State Minister (President’s Office) Regional Administration, Local Government, and Special Departments, Mr Haji Omar Kheri, who asked members of the public to respect the marked boundaries. More than 37m/- has been spent on making the beacons. “We have decided to fix survey beacons for easy identification of Shehias, particularly in planning and provision of services as we implement the Decentralisation-by-Devolution policy. Using survey beacons in boundaries will benefit not only my ministry, but other institutions,” Mr Kheri said. At a meeting with journalists, Mr Kheri said that upon completion of the project to fix survey beacons in all Shehias boundaries, it will be easy for researchers and planners to perform their duties, and would also be helpful during the population census, identification of people and issuing of IDs, data collection, and security purposes. Shehia is the lowest administrative authority in the hierarchy of regional administration in Zanzibar, as the ‘Regional Administrative Authority Act’ specified, for the purpose of better and efficient discharge of the functions of the government. He said: “We have been working with other institutions such as the Lands and Survey Department, and the office of Government Chief Statistician to endorse the use of beacons in identifying boundaries of all the 388 Shehias in Unguja and Pemba.” The minister said the exercise was scheduled to start tomorrow in the Urban-West Region, Unguja, before moving to other regions of Zanzibar, and that officers undertaking the task are req uired to be careful. Mr Kheri warned people not to spread rumours, through social media and streets, about the ‘survey beacon’ fixing in boundaries because it had no hidden agenda other than administrative efficiency. The boundary demarcation of Shehia, districts and region was done in 2015 under the approval of President Ali Mohamed Shein in accordance with the Zanzibar Constitution of 1984 and the Regional Administrative Act of 2014.