THE Export Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) Director General Col. (retired) Joseph Simbakalia has said that industrial development and national security complement each other on all matters of national economy. “While industries depend on security organs for safely operating environment, security organs depend on industries for goods like uniforms, shoes, and firearms,” he said in Dar es Salaam over the weekend after hosting a delegation of Course Members from the National Defence College (NDC) who were in a learning tour. He said the government’s determination of achieving middle economy by 2025 through industrialisation is of top priority with the aim of creating jobs to its people particularly the youth. He said for example, in some countries lack of essential manufactured products has been cited as the main cause for social unrests and conflicts. “We have heard of riots and violence in some countries that experienced shortage of some essential goods like cooking oil, medicine, sugar,” he said, adding that this implies that there is no security if production activities are not taking place. He emphasised that coordination of national security is an invisible issue that is not coordinated by security organs alone but also by many other key players who oversight it. According to him, Tanzania has therefore conducive environment for industrial development due to peace and stability that are motivated by related factors unlike in the past where industries collapsed. He explained factors including political stability that is brought by good political leadership, member of academia who sharpens skilled labour supply for both, private as well as public sectors, social and religious leaders who advocate for peace, security and stability. Others are application of rule of law that increases social capital and the general people whom if well managed, will eventually work hard towards attaining one goal. The NDC course members were led by Commandant Lieutenant Paul Masao as part of their learning tour where among others, they had an opportunity of touring Tanzania Tooku garment limited and garment manufacturing industry within EPZA premises that exports to different nations. EPZA is mandated to promote, register and facilitate investments in Special Economic Zones (SEZ) with its headquarters located at Ubungo External area in Dar es Salaam.