THE Central Bank Governor, Prof Florens Luoga, has called for professionalism and patriotism among business journalists in covering economic and financial matters since they have far-reaching implications on national interests. He said in Dodoma yesterday that it was important for business journalists to maintain ethics and standards and to promote patriotism in covering financial and economic news and analysis as they are crucial for the development of the nation. “We need journalists with capacity to analyse and tell the public about financial and economic reports so that these reports are not used to undermine the credibility of the government,” he said in his closing remarks for a five-day training seminar organised by the Central Bank for business reporters in the capital city. He said financial and economic reports were crucial in promoting the image of the nation to global investors, which is crucial in attracting investments necessary to boost economic growth and development. He added that the economic and financial news are necessary to exude confidence among domestic investors and restore market stability, cautioning however that they could as well be used for ill intentions to bring about instability in the market. “When not used properly, financial and economic reports may have very serious harm to the nation,” prof Luoga noted. He said the Central Bank will continue to conduct seminar trainings for business journalists to build their capacity so that they can write and analyse better economic and financial reports to educate the public on what matters to them. He said it was important to build capacity to business journalists so that they can be able to understand and analyse economic and financial reports even when they are used by some people with ill intentions. “Sometimes these financial and economic reports may be used as a weapon by those who don’t like you, or those you have differed with in some matters. When you differ with some people, they use the reports as a weapon. “They may pick some data and use it out of context and say for instance that the economy is not growing or fiscal and monetary policies are not working, which may scare foreign and even domestic investors and make your people lose confidence and trust to the government,” he said.