THE East African Community (EAC) has managed to enter only Simba in the 16 - team group stage after the elimination of Viper of Uganda and Gor Mahia this weekend. Simba gallantly claimed the top 1 6 ticket after a hard earned 4 -3 victory over Nkana of Zambia at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Sunday. Kenyan giants, Gor Mahia crashed out of the Champions League race after losing to Lobi Stars of Nigeria. Gor Mahia, who began their campaign with 3-1 victory at Moi Kasarani lost on away goal rule after suffering a 2 -0 loss in Nigeria this weekend. They were the best placed East African club prior to the painful loss. Vipers who lost 1-0 to CS Constantine of Algeria in their away game in Algiers, looked clear favourites to turn tables in the return leg match in Kampala, but found themselves going down again with 2 -0 loss. Two second half headed goals by Adil Djabout and Mohamed Walid Bencherifa helped CS Constantine of Algeria to advance to the group stage after a 2 -0 win against Vipers SC of Uganda at the St Mary’s Stadium, Kitende. Constantine progressed 3 -0 on aggregate after winning the first leg 1 -0 last week at the Mohamed Hamlaoui Stadium in Algeria. Kampala City Council(KCCA) who eliminated Mtibwa Sugar of Tanzania can play in the group stage of the CAF Confederation Cup do they clear a play- off hurdle against the opponents to be known later. Simba have joined 1 5 others in the tough group stage. The Tanzanian envoys are likely to be pooled in three of the following teams. The top guns include Esperance of Tunisia, Al Ahly of Egypt, TP Mzembe of Congo DR and Waydad Casablanca of Morroco. There are also Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa, As Vita Club of Congo DR, Orlando Pirates of South Africa and CS Constantine of Algeria who kicked out Vipers of Uganda. Also from Algeria are AS Saoura while Ismaily will represent Egypt, Lobi Stars are Nigerian envoys while FC Platinum Zimbabwe are the only Zimbabwean envoys. Old Clubs like Horoya FC of Guinea, Asec Mimosa of Ivory Coast and Club Africain of Tunisa are also in the best 1 6 kit.