THE Tanzania Atomic Energy Commission (TAEC) has suspended 69 diagnostic facilities across the country from conducting radiology services over poor radiation equipment and lack of qualified staff. The regulator of nuclear and atomic energy in the country also descended on the facilities for not being licenced to run such services. Speaking shortly after opening a five-day National Training Course in Radiation Protection in Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology yesterday, TAEC Acting Director General Dr Wilbroad Muhogora said the clampdown follows revelations of flaws in service provision. “Our investigations established that some of the centres weren’t licenced to offer such services while others lacked qualified staff to handle the machines, hence posing serious health hazards for themselves and their clients,” explained Dr Muhogora. According to Dr Muhogora, the commission’s inspection had laid bare glaring flaws and unprofessionalism in the provision of diagnostic services in the 69 facilities. He said that some radiology machines that were used in taking pictures of dense tissues such as bones and teeth in hospitals were outdated while some of the health facilities had inadequate shielding of the main door leading to the dental X-Ray room. “It is imperative for these centres to have a licence issued by TAEC and they also need to employ qualified staff to run the sophisticated machines,” he told the 51 radiographers, radiologists and medical practitioners who had assembled for the training. Other flaws established in the TAEC’s inspection include positioning of mammography and general X-Ray machines and insufficient electricity to operate the machines. Earlier, the commission’s Acting Director for Radiation Control Unit, Engineer John Ngatunga, observed that X-ray equipments ought to be maintained by qualified staff and periodically tested. “Radiation safety includes management of the doses patients are exposed to, too much exposure could be fatal,” he warned. Established by the Atomic Energy Act No. 7 of 2003, the TAEC is mandated to provide regulatory, promotion of nuclear technology in the country and to co-ordinate, facilitate or advise on, the transfer and safe, peaceful utilisation of nuclear tech nology and atomic energy . T h e regulatory functions of th e C ommission include, among oth er th ings, conducting radiation safety inspections in all radiation w ork places in th e country . If th e radiation safety status of th e facility is adeq uate, th e C ommission issues auth orisation in th e form of licence. H ow ev er, if th e radiation practices pose radiological risk s to persons and th e env ironment, the Commission according to S ection 6 ( i) of th e A tomic E nergy A ct, may suspend or close dow n facilities. Exposure to h igh radiation lev els is said to h av e a w ide range of effects, such as v omiting, b leeding, fainting, and th e loss of sk in and hair. The radiation ex posure can cause cell mutations th at may lead to cancer. X - ray s are a naturally occurring form of electromagnetic radiation. T h ey are produced w h en ch arged particles of sufficient energy h it a material. Over th e y ears, scientists h av e sh ow n concern ov er th e h ealth implications of X - ray s. Offered in forms of R adiography , F luoroscopy and C omputed tomography ( C T ) scans such radiations are said to increase th e risk of cancer b y 0 .6 to 1 .8 per cent. A n estimated 3 .6 b illion diagnostic medical ex aminations, such as X - ray s, are performed ev ery y ear, according to th e W orld H ealth O rganisation ( W H O ) . T h is number continues to grow as more people access medical care. A b out 3 5 0 million of th ese are performed on ch ildren under 1 5 y ears of age. In February 2 0 1 5 , th e Pan African C ongress of Radiology and Imaging launched AFROSAFE , a campaign to ensure all radiation-based medical procedures in A frica are necessary and performed safely .