…as JPM lays foundation stone for a 140.5bn/- worth lane between Kimara and Kibaha A SWELLING population, coupled with ruralurban migration which places Dar es Salaam on the list of the fastest growing cities in Africa, requires massive investments in improving infrastructure to cope, President John Magufuli, affirmed yesterday. Dr Magufuli pointed further that apart from ongoing projects, the government has allocated 660bn/- to construct roads in the country’s commercial hub, which presently has an estimated population of five million people and slated to double to ten million people by 2030. Separate projects being undertaken include construction of an interchange at Ubungo as well as planned construction of flyovers and bus rapid transit infrastructure. “Reports have shown that Dar es Salaam will be among the five fastest growing cities in Africa by 2030,” Dr Magufuli remarked yesterday. The list also consists of Luanda (Angola), Nairobi, (Kenya), Cairo (Egypt) and Lagos (Nigeria). President Magufuli was speaking shortly before laying a foundation stone for construction of the 19.2 kilometres- eight-lane to be constructed at a cost of 140.5bn/- between Kimara Stopover in Dar es Salaam and Kibaha in Coast Region. Addressing a mammoth crowd that braced the ongoing rains to witness the historic event, Dr Magufuli however warned that the government would not compensate people who had erected structures on road reserves. The Head of State elaborated that the road reserves were first gazetted through the Road Ordinance of 1932 which was later amended in 1936 and lately in 2007, indicating respective space to be reserved for expansion from the city centre at the Clock Tower to upcountry regions. Various attempts have been made by some people in the past to challenge the laws but the High Court upheld them through a ruling on case number 39 filed in 1997, he emphasized. “We should learn to adhere to the laws; no one will be compensated for a demolished structure erected on the road reserve. Some politicians with ill motives may try to sweet-talk you on this but the position is clear, no compensation,” President Magufuli stressed. Dr Magufuli pointed to the fact that the planners of the reserves had kept in mind future requirements for expanding the infrastructures in Dar es Salaam city and other areas in the country. What is more, Dar es Salaam Port is a significant harbour gateway for exports and imports from within the country and several other landlocked countries, Dr Magufuli pointed. He was similarly impressed by the fact that improvements of roads had gained significant momentum over the years through massive expansion of the original ones. “We have managed to register all these achievements by using local sources of funding to undertake the projects since development partners have been dragging their feet in some projects,” he explained. As Dar es Salaam inches among five fastest growing metropolis in the continent, available reports indicate that Africa’s population of roughly 1.1 billion is expected to double by 2050 with more than 80 per cent of that growth set to be in cities. The dossier by JobnetAfrica places Dar es Salaam as the fastest growing city in Africa, stating that Tanzania’s largest city and the country’s trading hub, will outpace all other African cities in growth between 2010 and 2025. The capital city’s population has grown more than sixfold since 1978. JobnetAfrica says in its report that on position number two is Nairobi while Kinshasa and Luanda are third and fourth respectively, followed by Addis Ababa and Abidjan.