MTIBWA Sugar will need to produce magic and turn around the score against Uganda’s KCCA in CAF Confederation Cup as they face off in the first round, return leg at the Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam today. It will be a day to determine whether Mtibwa Sugar will be eliminated or book a place into the second round of the continental second tier clubs championship. Mtibwa Sugar would have to score four un-replied goals against the Ugandan giants, to progress to the group stages, which looks a difficult task for the Tanzanian team, but football these days can’t be predictable. KCCA go into the return leg with a three goal advantage, having won the opening leg 3-0 with Kaddu, Allan Kyambadde and Allan Okello on target at Lugogo Stadium last Saturday. In today’s do or die encounter, hosts Mtibwa Sugar face an uphill task against KCCA, bidding to outshine their opponents and eliminate them from the tournament. For the past few days, Mtibwa Sugar stepped up drills ahead of the clash against KCCA and according to the club officials, the players are in great shape ready for the match, aiming at turning around the tables against the Ugandan side. Mtibwa’s Technical Director, Salum Mayanga and Head Coach Zuberi Katwila, who have teamed up to work on mistakes which led to a humiliating defeat in the first leg, are likely to have come up with the answers to the problems. However, that mission might not be an easy one as the Uganda’s Premier League leader’s KCCA, who are on brink of cruising into the second round won’t be an easy prey for Mtibwa to kill. The hosts will need to dig deep to fulfil their dream of making it into the second round. They need to have good technical and tactical plans to destroy their opponents. The Morogoro based side ditched out of the tournament, Seychelles’ Northern Dynamos by 5-0 goals on aggregate in a two legged encounter in the preliminary round to book a date against KCCA. The match will be officiated by referees from Namibia, Shifeleni Shoovaleka Nehemia, Mathew Kanyanga, Isaskar Boois and Jonas Shongedi, while the Match Commissioner will be Amir Osman Mohamed Hamid from Sudan. KCCA jetted in Dar es Salaam on Thursday, ahead of today’s game and they will miss their in-form striker, Patrick Kaddu, who is among the notable names omitted from the team contingent. Kaddu, who was on target in the first leg at Lugogo is nursing injuries sustained in a Uganda Premier League duel last Tuesday has been left behind alongside Julius Poloto and Benard Muwanga. Speaking about the KCCA Coach Mike Mutebi said they are ready for the challenge which isn’t going to be easy and that they are going to try to play positive football and win as well entertaining with good football those, who will came to witness the game. “We have no injuries in our squad and we trained well yesterday and ready for the challenge which is not going to be easy we might have scored three goals at home but we are playing away now, but bottom line we are facing a big challenges, which we think we can handle,” said Mutebi. On his side, KCCA midfielder, Sserwadda Steven said they know the game is going to be tough for both sides and the 90 minute will decide their fate. However, he said they are looking for victory despite their opponents, who he described as a good team will also be well prepared for the clash. Another country envoy in the CAF Champions League, Simba will face a great battle tomorrow at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in another ‘do or die’ battle against Zambia giants Nkana FC.