PLANS are underway for the government to put up infrastructure of postcode system in 12 councils, a move that will facilitate to accurately identify residential and business addresses in various areas. Acting Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications, Dr Jim Yonazi, made the revelation at a working meeting on postcode and residential address here yesterday, saying the system would facilitate services delivery to residential and business areas. “The postcode system promotes online shopping. It also promotes social and economic development,” said the acting Permanent Secretary during the meeting which was organised by the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications. Dr Yonazi named the 12 councils where the construction of postcode system infrastructure will be undertaken as Mwanza, Tanga, Dodoma, Ilemela, Shinyanga, Morogoro, Moshi, Chato, Bahi, Chamwino, as well as Kibaha and Geita townships. He pointed out other benefits of postcode system as improvement of revenues collection, security, increase of employment opportunities and improvement of service provision largely in emergencies. Dr Yonazi explained further that the government had already constructed infrastructure in 46 wards in Dar es Salaam, eight wards in every three urban areas including Zanzibar, Arusha and Dodoma Cities as well as Chamwino. “We are also finalising preparations to put up the infrastructure for postcode system in the Government City in Dodoma,” he said. Dr Yonazi said setting up the postcode system and residential addresses was part of the implementation of National Postal Policy of 2003, saying the National Policy directs to introduce postcode in order to facilitate social services provision, including letters and parcels delivery. He said the postcode system had been facilitating the National Identification Authority in the issuance of national IDs, adding that the postcode system facilitates operations executed by Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA), Tanzania Revenue Authority and National Bureau of Statistics. Dodoma Regional Commissioner, Dr Binilith Mahenge, in his opening speech delivered on his behalf by Dodoma District Commissioner, Mr Patrobas Katambi, said it was high time Dodoma City Council (DCC) considered renaming streets as another source of revenue. He explained that the City Council could ‘sell’ the streets to the people who want them to bear their names , who would pay annual fees for them, as is the case for personalised vehicle number plates. The Permanent Secretary in the President’s Office for Regional Administration and Local Government, Engineer Mussa Iyombe, said his ministry would ensure local councils constructed roads infrastructure which would facilitate postcode system. “The postcode system helps identify taxpayers hence an increase in revenues collection in councils,” said the Permanent Secretary in his speech read on his behalf by Richard Chacha, a senior official from the ministry.