TANZANIA Volleyball Association (TAVA) has finalised preparations for Uhuru International Beach Volleyball tournament, starting its shootout today at Mbalamwezi Hotel in Dar es Salaam. The organisers TAVA said the tournament aimed at motivating more local players in playing Beach Volleyball which today has gained popularity worldwide. TAVA said the team that finishes top in the tournament starting today and climax tomorrow, will be awarded a Zanzibar tour besides other pulsating prizes. Shukuru Ali, an official from TAVA told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ that yesterday everything has been finalised for the tournament to start today. He said 14 teams from all East African countries have so far registered for the two-day tournament. Ali further noted that there are two teams from Burundi, six teams from Kenya while two teams will represent Zanzibar. Tanzania Mainland has entered four teams; two for men’s discipline and other two for ladies category. The winners of both men’s and ladies categories pocket 1m/- each, while 500,000/- is set for the event’s runners up. Adding, he said Coastal Aviation has offered return tickets as prize to the winners of the both disciplines. The winners will fly to Zanzibar and have a day accommodation there. “This is a motivational opportunity for local teams since it makes them play well,” said Ali. However, he said he was not satisfied with the number of the local teams confirmed to participate in the event despite having many talented players. Ali urged teams to register in a big number so as to support the volleyball’s efforts to promote the game. He said the tournament is also an ideal platform to get experience and also improve skills since the tournament involves teams from other countries. Ali noted that as the beach volleyball involves team with only two players they expect that many teams will join the event. “TAVA have aimed at bringing beach volleyball to the high level as it is easy to develop it because it involves a few players,” said Ali.