MEN who consume excessive alcohol and smoke are in danger of contracting breast cancer, it has been established. A general surgeon with the Bugando Medical Centre (BMC), Dr Samwel Byabato said here over the weekend that men with the two habits should watch their steps as scientific researches showed that they were at risk of contracting breast cancers just like women. According to Dr Byabato, similar studies have revealed that out of 10 women cancer victims there was one man, advising men to cultivate a culture of regular breast cancer screening. “Men are not spared when it comes to contracting breast cancer although the number is not that big compared to women. Studies show that out of ten women with breast cancer there is one man,” he said. Dr Byabato said men still shied away from attending screening camps to check their cancer status, warning that it was wrong to assume they were safe. He mentioned leading factors behind the increase of cancer cases in the Lake Zone as those related to genetics, environment, rays and excessive alcohol and cigarette smoking, citing women as the main victims of the problem. BMC conducted a screening camp for a number of problems among members of the public, especially children, including breast cancer, sickle cell and heart screening. At least 5 00 people showed up for the exercise and those who tested positive were referred for specialised medication including surgeries at the Bugando Oncology Department. In another development, Tanzania was said to be one of the leading countries with sickle cell patients among the children in the world; the fourth after Nigeria, India and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Consultant Paediatrician at BMC Dr Emmanuela Ambrose said the country was the third in Africa and the fourth in the world. reporting the problem to be more rampant in the country’s Lake Zone regions. Y et, the Lake Zone was equally told to bear another burden of patients with heart defects, with more than 500 children patients being referred to Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) for surgeries every year. According to Consultant Cardiologist Dr Glory Joseph, every month the BMC refers at least 5 0 children with heart defects to JKCI, many with congenital heart defects.