TANZANIA Revenue Authority (TRA) is demanding over 1.4tri/- tax from BG Tanzania Limited for striking a share purchase deal in three gas blocks with an international conglomerate—Royal Dutch Shell. In 2015, Royal Dutch Shell purchased 60 per cent stake in relation to gas business from blocks one, three and four held by BG Tanzania Limited at a certain consideration but the British Gas (BG) Group’s subsidiary company could not pay the capital gain tax as required by Tanzania Income Tax Act. When TRA Commissioner General pressed the gas exploration company to pay 520 million US dollars as capital gain tax, the BG Tanzania Limited opposed and subsequently rushed to Tax Revenue Appeals Board to challenge the payment. Before the Appeals Board, BG Tanzania is challenging the method used to determine the 520 million US dollars in capital gains tax and has advanced several grounds to fault the payments. It alleges that “TRA comparable market valuation approach used to the alleged tax liability is incorrect.” The company has, among others, claimed that “TRA used incorrect market indicators to assess the adjusted required accounting for market deterioration from 2013 to 2016,” and that “TRA used incorrect and overstated quantum of gas resources in its valuation of the BG assets.” According to court records, the appeal is still pending, but the hearing has been staying pending determination of some miscellaneous applications surrounding the matter. TRA maintains in the appeal that the assessment made was based on the market value of the assets, a factor of volumes and global natural gas prices and Royal Dutch Shell’s acquisition costs. Furthermore, the taxman refers to a precedent set in 2013 when Ophir Energy PLC and Ophir Services PTY Limited sold 20 per cent stake in block One and Four to Pavilion Energy Pte Limited at 1.3 billion US dollars and TRA received 228 million US dollars in capital gain tax. There are claims that Royal Dutch had allocated only 1.8 per cent, the equivalent of 850 million US dollars of the total price paid to the Tanzania unit for the purchase of the stake in BG Group, whose Tanzania subsidiary had already spent about 1.5 billion US dollars, hence indicating a loss, not a gain. In 2012, Public Accounts Committee Chairman Zitto Kabwe pushed for the government to amend the tax laws to introduce 20 per cent capital gains tax for sale of shares or securities by companies whose assets are in Tanzania. The matter became a big political issue with MPs from both the opposition and CCM complaining that the government was losing revenues due to lack of a legal mechanism to stop tax leakages. As a result, the laws were amended in 2013 to allow the government to charge capital gains tax on the companies. At some point in time in 2016, Tanzanian businessman Moto Mabanga petitioned the Fair Competition Commission (FCC) to oppose the deal by two foreign companies dealing in gas exploration, Royal Dutch Shell and BG Group, to merge interest rights in the three gas blocks. The two companies at the time had sought approval of the FCC in Tanzania to effect the transaction by taking over the controlling stake in 60 per cent interests in relation to gas blocks held by BG Tanzania Limited at certain consideration. However, Mr Mabanga, who is having interests rights in the three gas blocks strongly opposed the move in its form, pointing out that the same were subjected to two legal litigations at the time, which were pending at the High Court in Dar es Salaam. The disputes, according to court records involve other foreign companies, Ophir Energy PLC and Ophir Services PTY Limited and BG Tanzania Limited, in one case and all the three companies together with Pavilion Energy Pte Limited as necessary party in another case. Mr Mabanga lost the FCC petition.