MINISTER of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Jenista Mhagama has urged all public institutions that are yet to voluntarily register with the Occupational Health and Safety Authority (OSHA) to do so immediately and obtain a compliance certificate. The move aims at ensuring that all institutions comply with the requirement of the law so that they can be slotted into the OSHA database as part of reducing occupational hazards in the workplace. Ms Mhagama was speaking to the OSHA staff after visiting them to assess daily operations and receive a progress report on legislation compliance. The primary objective of OSHA is to ensure the creation and maintenance of an ideal work environment free from occupational hazards that may cause injuries or illnesses to employees. Normally, a compliance licence issued by OSHA is valid for one year and is renewed in accordance with the governing law. However, the compliance licence can be revoked at any time by the chief inspector if it is proven that the law has been violated. During her visit, Ms Mhagama said since its establishment, there were tremendous achievements to ensure employees worked in a safe environment in the workplace, but she was quick to remind all public institutions to comply with the applicable legislation. “We insist all institutions to voluntarily register with OSHA so that they can discharge their duties as per the requirements of the law and avoid the hazardous environment in the workplace,’’ she noted, paying tribute to the agency for operating professionally and that it would continue getting government support. To ensure all institutions comply with the law, beginning this financial year, the government scrapped at least three fees that were a nuisance to creating an enabling investment environment in the country. The move aimed at lessening the burden of double charges for services to investors. Scrapping of these charges was a result of several meetings the government convened with the private sector aimed at linking them with public institutions to make investment environmentally friendly. Speaking at a meeting, OSHA Acting Chief Executive Hadija Mwenda said apart from discharging several duties, her organisation had made great strides in removing bottlenecks that were impeding investors, public institutions and other stakeholders in the country. “Since its inception, OSHA has been continuing with its public awareness campaign and education to ensure people understand their obligations, including legal compliance,” she said.