THE rehabilitation work at Mponde Tea Factory is progressing well as the company is scheduled to resume operations next month. The rehabilitation of the factory follows directives issued by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa during his tour of Tanga Region in November this year, where he ordered for reopening of the factory which was closed since 2013. Sunday News Reporter toured the factory this week to witness the progress of the work, where the rehabilitation of the factory, staff houses and maintenance of farm machinery was going on. Lushoto District Commissioner, January Lugangika told this paper that technicians carrying out the rehabilitation work were from Tanzania Tea Authority (TTA). “The rehabilitation is progressing well, the technicians are currently working on the factory roofs, maintenance of water boiler, renovation of staff houses and farm machinery,” he said. Lugangika added “we are expecting the factory to resume operations by January next year”. When the Premier toured Tanga Region in November this year, he said that the government has decided to reinstate the factory and ordered for reopening after being closed down for five years following a dispute between tea growers and the investor. He said the evaluation established that the company was indebted 4.6b/-. Juma Shemakande, a resident of Bumbuli who is also one of the tea growers, said reopening of the factory will bring new hope to the farmers. “We commend the government for its decision to reopen the factory, because it guarantees market for tea growers,” he said. Announcing the reopening of the factory, Majaliwa said the government decided to reopen the factory which was repossessed by the government in 2016 to ease farmers’ economic and social problems. Tea is the main commercial crop for residents of Bumbuli District Council and one of the major sources of revenue for the council. The factory was managed by an investor who had been hired by Usambara Tea Growers Association (Utega) until 2013, when a conflict which had been simmering silently for years, exploded and farmers opted to stop selling their green tea leaves to the firm, leaving the management in dilemma.