AS the government gears up to capture China’s tourist market, the Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB) has announced impressive progress in developing the tourist strategy for the purpose. The board says final touches are being put on the strategy, and that it will be released soon. Its chairman, Judge Thomas Mihayo (rtd), pointed out yesterday that the market strategy draft would be ready next month, ahead of endorsement. Meanwhile, while waiting for the marketing strategy, the board has started promoting Tanzania’s tourist attractions in China. “We have prepared a special document on how to promote our tourist attractions in China,” Justice Mihayo told journalists in Dar es Salaam. The China Embassy in Tanzania and the Tanzania Embassy in China were helping the TTB to identify people who would be promoting the country’s tourist attractions in China. Given these initiatives, it is expected that a big number of Chinese tourists will start flocking into Tanzania in February next year. “Chinese people tend to travel a lot during that month; so we expect a big influx of tourists from that country then,” he said. Judge Mihayo called on the authorities and those associated with requisite facilities to chart strategies for breaking communication barriers with Chinese tourists. “We have asked the Immigration department to recruit at least one Chinese-speaking Tanzanian at each border checkpoint to ease communication… this also applies to hotels because we are certain that the number of Chinese tourists will increase,” he further explained. A counselor at the China Embassy in Tanzania, Mr Gao Wei, explained that the embassy had been very supportive of tourism promotion by the TTB and the government. So far, the embassy has been supporting TTB in terms of training and building the capacity of requisite personnel. Efforts to attract more Chinese tourists has been linked to the introduction of international flights by the Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL). ATCL’s Sales and Supply Manager, Mr Edward Nkwabi, expressed optimism that the number of Chinese passengers travelling with ATCL planes to Tanzania will increase. Recently, ATCL conducted a road show for promoting ATCL flights to and from China, set to start early next year. “We have acquired an experienced flight agent in China who will promote us,” he said, saying the flights would contribute to boosting the number of tourists to Tanzania.