KAMPALA International University in Tanzania (KIUT) celebrated its first graduation yesterday as a fully-fledged facility and introduced its first 17- member council. With 754 students, who graduated at the facility’s grounds in Gongolamboto, Dar es Salaam, KIUT marked a new beginning by improving shortcomings identified by the Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) earlier this year. KIUT held other graduations since 2013 to 2017, when it was a constituent college of Kampala International University, noted Prof Abanis Turyahebwa, the Deputy Vice Chancellor of KIUT. The council with members from Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda, was formed in response to TCU’s directives. This came about, when TCU barred KIUT from admitting new students because it lacked requisite financial and human resources for providing quality education. The university has addressed the shortfalls identified by TCU, including forming the university council, remarked Prof Turyahebwa. “Right now we have addressed all shortcomings identified by TCU and a process is underway to invite them to come to inspect KIUT and the changes that have been instituted to meet required standards so that we can resume admitting new students,” he stated. The selection of council members take into account academic experience specifically from the universities, expecting them to be catalysts for the facility’s development, explained Prof Turyahebwa. This is the first council set for the university and was formed by the university’s board of trustees in June this year with the intention of putting into effect directives given by TCU, explained Prof Tolly Mbwette, chairperson of the council. “The council is well equipped with professional members working or have worked in universities and have held high positions, indicating that they are well-qualified and experienced to be in the council,” he commented. “This is the beginning of KIUT. We are set to improve even further so that we provide the best education to Tanzanians and anybody, who will be admitted,” affirmed Dr Mouhamad Mpezamihigo, assistant chairperson of the council. At present KIUT has more than 2,000 students with the capacity of admitting over 11,000 students. KIUT is also building a hospital, whose construction, has been completed by 80 per cent. It will have 800 beds and will provide services to students and the community as well.