YOUNG Africans brightened their Premier League’s drivers seat with a hard earned 3-2 win over Ruvu Shooting Stars in a tense game at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam yesterday. It was the 14th victory for Yanga who also stamped a 16-match unbeaten run by winning the yesterday’s match. Yanga continue to firmly clinch the helm with 44 points, four points superior to their closest challengers, Azam FC who have so far reaped 40 points. With three matches to end their first round campaign, Yanga have now dumped far their traditional rivals, Simba who still parade 27 points. Simba have been out of the league actions for several weeks due to commitments in CAF Champions League. Goals from Amis Tambwe, Feisal Salum and Haritier Makambo helped Yanga to survive Ruvu Shooting scare, as they equalised whenever Yanga posted a lead. Fullyzuru Maganga and Saidi Dilunga scored the two goals that Ruvu Shooting netted yesterday. It was one of the most thrilling games of the league this season which saw Ruvu Shooting coming from behind twice into the game to put pressure on the hosts Yanga. The guest team played brilliantly in both defending and attacking something that troubled the Jangwani based side. Makambo again proved his worthiness to the club as his injury time header from Ibrahim Ajibu’s set piece enabled the hosting team to collect maximum points from their home territory. Yanga’s coach Mwinyi Zahera was forced to make first half substitution when his centre back Vicent Andrew picked an injury a few minutes before the end of the first half. Also, the Congolese coach introduced Pius Buswita and Deus Kaseke in the 56th minute replacing Papy Tshishimbi and Mwinyi Haji respectively in a move seemed to consolidate the midfield section and attacking, the sections which the visitors dominated most of the time. In the 78th minute, the stadium exploded into cheers when Yanga’s midfielder Feisal Salum fired a powerful shot at the edge of the box which went straight into the yawning goal to make it 2-1 for Yanga. However, this never threatened Ruvu Shooting who kept pushing more men upfront in search for an equaliser. Yanga captain of the day, Amis Tambwe who also scored the opening goal for his team handled the ball inside the penalty area in an attempt to clear the ball to safety hence the referee pointed to the spot. It was Dilunga who calmly converted beating Yanga keeper Ramadhani Kabwili to make the score 2-2. Here is when the climax of football reached as Ruvu Shooting who started to defend in big numbers thereby attracting pressure from their opponents. It was one of the attacks that earned Yanga a free kick that earned Yanga a goal few seconds to the stoppage time. Ajibu fired a volley into the box, picking Makambo who slotted it home from a close range. Yanga’s victory continues to put them on the right side as the main contenders of the league title for this season even though the journey is still long for them.