FROM January 2019, all sisal fibers from five Korogwe sisal plantations owned by small sisal growers would be sold through auction where buyers willing to buy will be announced every three months. Announcing the winner of the tender on behalf of Tanga Regional Commissioner over the weekend, Handeni District Commissioner Godwin Gondwe (pictured) said the decision of selling through auction was the agreement between farmers and regional authority after long negotiations of finding solutions on the disputes with Katani Limited. “The government’s intention is resolve the problems....and this bidder who won the tender among the four is not a permanent purchaser, the process of tender announcement will be done after every three months and directives by December 31st this agreement to be signed by both sides (Dada Agriculture Investment and Small sisal growers) to resume the production as soon as possible,” DC Gondwe said. Dada Agriculture Investment emerged winner after beating other bidders namely Katani Limited and Shop-Well (T) Limited from Tanga, Tanzania Commodities Trading Companies from Dar es Salaam. Mr Gondwe said the disputes made small sisal growers to stop production until when the regional authority intervened and resolved the matter. Through auction, farmers will be assured of getting competitive prices. The decision reached after a yearly drama of economic dispute between small sisal growers of five plantations of Hale, Ngombezi, Mwelya, Magunga and Magoma and Tanga based Katani Limited in Korogwe District led Tanga Regional Commissioner Martine Shigella to intervene it. The decision had reached here in Korogwe in a short function to pick the bidder who met the criteria of purchasing sisal fibers. The representatives of small sisal growers of five sisal and leaders of Agriculture Marketing Cooperative Societies (Amcos) of plantations of Hale, Mwelya, Ngombezi, Magunga and Magoma, Korogwe District and Tanga farmingregional authorities as well as Tanzania Sisal Board (TSB) leaders attended the event. For his part Dada Agriculture Investment General Manager Fang Yu Song thanked the government after winning the tender and pledged to comply with all terms and conditions of the tenders including purchase of all monthly sisal fibers production estimated to reach about 300 tonnes for all five plantations and provide maximum cooperation to them. Khalfan Juma, small sisal grower from Mwelya sisal plantation said at least with this new buyer farmers’ income will increase because after costs involved in cutting of sisal leaves, factory process and sales, take home stands at 1.5m/- compared to only 500,000/- received before.