THE fourth round of the Annual Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Youth Boot Camp is expected to start next Tuesday, as part of an initiative aimed to encourage more secondary students to pursue sciences in the future. Speaking to the media in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Project Coordinator of a youth led organisation identified as Projekt Inspire, Mr Masoud Mnonji disclosed that the country currently has a gap on the number of its experts in the science fields and related fields. "Seeing to it that the problem does not hinder the country’s goal of becoming an industrialised economy by the year 2025, we saw it vital to come up with an initiative which aims to encourage students in STEM fields," said Mr Mnonji. The project is being supported by Nabaki Afrika, the British High Commission, and Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF). And it is implemented in collaboration with St Joseph University in Tanzania, Ifakara Health Institute (IHI) among others. He pointed out that the focus is ensuring that come 2025, the country smoothly carries out its anticipated plans with the support of its local expertise that has been generated. According to Assistant Project Coordinator of Projekt Inspire, Mr Issaya Ipyana, the aim of hosting the boot camp for secondary students is to stir critical thinking, problem solving and innovation in the world of rapidly evolving science and technology, particularly for the country's industrial economy. Mr Ipyana observed that in the past three years, Projekt Inspire has successfully organised three boot camps benefiting over 500 youths countrywide. He pointed the previous recorded success through boot camps, STEM clubs and outreaches in the students' respective schools; they will be hosting about 70 secondary students from both private and public schools. A Consultant of the Project, Mr Harvey Kadyanji revealed that the boot camp will help equip the students with the opportunity to address key issues pertaining to agriculture using STEM skills and knowledge.