PREPARATIONS for the 55th anniversary of Zanzibar Revolution are in progress, the climax being January 12. Second Vice- President Seif Ali Iddi yesterday landed in Pemba, where he inspected ongoing improvement of Pemba Airport, including the VIP lounge and some roads to be used by national leaders during celebrations. “I am impressed with the preparations,” Mr Iddi said during his inspection tour as Director General of Zanzibar Airports Authority (ZAA) Said Ndumbogani and Mr Ahmed Ahmad Bauchaofficer in-charge (Pemba) in the Ministry of Communications and Transport assured the Second Vice-President that all was going on well. Before his visit to Pemba, Mr Iddi chaired the National Holidays and Anniversaries Council meeting, revealing that 56 development programmes had been approved for launch and laying of the foundation stone for the celebrations. “A total of 39 completed programmes will be launched, while 17 of them qualify for the laying of the foundation stone,” reads part of the press statement released after the council’s meeting held in Forodhani, Stone Town. Mr Shaaban Seif Mohamed, Principal Secretary (PS) in the Second Vice- President’s Office said arrangements for a series of events to kick-start soon, were being finalised, including inspection of all development programmes earmarked for the 55th anniversary. The climax of the celebrations will take place in Pemba, where national leaders are expected to join thousands of residents for the commemoration on January 12, 2019 at Gombani Stadium, Chakechake. Special stalls with the national flag, stickers, billboards, street banners and other decorations with Revolutionary Day messages are being displayed in main areas of the country, particularly in towns. As per tradition, on the eve of Revolution Day, people enjoy fireworks and hooting sounds from cars and sea vessels (ships and speed boats) followed by a grand parade by defence and security forces in the morning. Other events to colour the 55th anniversary are a Mapinduzi trade fair to attract both local and foreign companies/entrepreneurs and Mapinduzi football tournament to involve at least 10 teams from Zanzibar, Mainland Tanzania and Uganda.