TANZANIA’S representatives in the CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup soccer tournaments, Simba SC and Mtibwa Sugar respectively, are through to the second round after registering a total of 16 goals against their extremely weak opponents from Swaziland and Seychelles. And, because the clubs our teams had played against were weak, both Simba and Mtibwa Sugar should stop celebrating and instead they need to prepare themselves very well for their second round opponents who are very much likely to be tougher than the kind of opposition they have just had. Simply put, our two clubs need to know that the higher one climbs the continental soccer club ladder, the tougher it is to beat teams they would be facing, hence the dire need for them to work extremely hard in their preparation against such opponents. Former Taifa Stars coach, who made history of training Simba and Young Africans, the late Syllersaid Mziray, once said for any average soccer team, going through the first two rounds is not difficult. He said the problem starts when a club gets to the third round of the tournament where opponents are not only more skillful, but they also have more staying power. Mziray, who made history by beating both Simba and Young Africans, in turns, when he handled either of two big teams said for a local team to reach the finals of either of the continental clubs soccer tournaments, such a team need to work hard on the stamina of its players. And, when you take a hard look on how the only Tanzanian soccer club to reach the semifinals of the Champions league (against Mehalla el Kubra of Egypt in 1974) and the CAF Cup finals (in 1993 in Dar against Stella Abidjan), namely, Simba, you would realise that on both occasion, the club’s players were very good as far as their stamina was concerned. And, when you look at both Simba and Mtibwa Sugar players now, both are not bad in terms of soccer skills of their players. But their main problem arguably due to lack of staying power; and that is what technical benches in both sides need to urgently work on if they want their two clubs to reap benefits. Starting the second round of the two respective soccer tournaments, Simba and Mtibwa Sugar are going to face a lot of challenges; and if they are not careful, that could spell the end of their participation in their tournaments in the same way Young Africans have done year in and year out. But if both think that becoming Tanzania’s premier league champion is more important than doing better in continental clubs soccer tournaments; then they can simply ignore my advice on how they can do better in more advanced soccer tournaments. But if they think and strongly believe in doing better and winning either of the continental soccer clubs tournaments, then they need to work very hard, and now, on their stamina as staying power is the only thing that can bring them untold results against their opponents no matter how strong they are. In fact, both teams need to know one thing; that both of them are, on the paper, very weak compared to their West and North African soccer opponents. Again, simply put, their teams lack basic soccer knowledge that can only be earned when players go through well, established and scientifically run soccer academies. And, because of lack of knowledge in basic soccer, technical benches in Simba and Mtibwa Sugar ought to know that, that is one big disadvantage their players have against well, drilled sides from more advanced soccer countries like the Democratic Republic of Congo, Morocco, Tunisia, Ghana, Nigeria, Cameroon, Senegal, Egypt, Sudan and some of the teams in southern Africa, Zambia and South Africa. What this means is that unlike well-developed soccer nations which I have listed above, Simba and Mtibwa Sugar now need to work harder than the foregoing countries. The two clubs need to work more than harder on their staying power because possession of massive stamina is the only way they can make full use of deploying total football that can not only help to maintain playing pace with their opponents, no matter how good they are, but also facilitate counter attacks, whenever they are required to, against their opponents. In fact, that is how starters like Nigeria’s Enyimba did before establishing themselves to the level they are today, being able to win continental soccer clubs tournaments their greenness in continental soccer clubs tournaments notwithstanding. The Nigerian soccer club of 1990s knew that they were not a good team. They therefore, spent more time working on their stamina that ultimately helped them to swim with the continent’s big sharks. If they have adequate stamina, Simba and Mtibwa Sugar players would be able to track down their opponents, whenever they have the ball, and throughout the match. Teams whose players are unable to keep close tabs on their opponents whenever they have the ball anywhere on the pitch, more often than not lack stamina. Staying power is one of the things that help, quite considerably, in covering up a team’s lack of skill as players who are fully armed with stamina are able to run around the pitch throughout the match, stifling their opponents’ moves, hence reducing their ability to score against them. If Simba and Mtibwa Sugar players work successfully on their stamina, they are likely to reach very far in their respective continental clubs soccer tournaments.