IN an effort to achieve the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Tanzania will continue to cherish the cooperation and collaboration with all development partners and private sector players, particularly in supporting community health in the country. The Director of Curative Services in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Dorothy Gwajima, said recently, during an event organised by Embassy of Ireland for the international board members and Amref’s leadership in Tanzania. She said Amref had been an instrumental in supporting the government’s efforts in community health since the days of independence. Dr Gwajima, who was speaking on behalf of the Ministry’s Permanent Secretary said that the government of the Republic of Ireland deserves praise for its huge investment in providing resources for implementation of the Community Based Health Programme (CBHP) through various programmes. “In Tanzania, the Government of Ireland has implemented ‘Tuwatumie’ project through support of Irish Aid that is being managed by Amref in partnership with Benjamin Mkapa Foundation and with the ministry’s support. “We are inviting more supporters in this drive, including the private or commercial sector,” Dr Gwajima said. She explained that CBHP has come with a vibe of formalising and recognising health assistants as a cadre in Tanzania, which includes roles and responsibilities at the community level. She added that to-date, almost 11,000 health assistants with skills to work in the communities have been trained to implement the CBHP. “To create a supportive working environment, a Scheme of Services (SoS) for the health assistants has recently been approved and officially released by the President’s Office Public Service Management and Good Governance and is now available for use by all stakeholders,” she noted. The Ireland Ambassador to Tanzania, Paul Sherlock, said that, the partnership with Amref Health Africa, particularly in Tanzania, has been instrumental in providing isolated rural communities with basic health services, especially designed to meet the needs of women, girls and young children. He pointed out that Amref is the first organisation to support the ministry of health to train, recruit and deploy community health workers and come up with information on the missing link between people in the villages and the health system. The Chairman of the Amref Health Africa International Board, Mr Omary Issa, explained that Tanzania had done a lot on the health sector and positive results had been realised.