THE national Under-17 football side, Serengeti Boys will take part in a special tournament in Antalya, Turkey as part of its preparations for the Africa Youth Championships (AYC) finals, to be hosted in the country. According to a statement released yesterday by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Information and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, Serengeti Boys will travel to Antalya next February to compete in the tournament. Ndimbo said the special tournament has been organised by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) in collaboration with the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) involving 12 teams from the two continents -- Africa and Europe. He said the tournament which will take over a week, slated to kick off from February 22nd to March 2nd next year. Apart from Tanzania, seven other African nations will send their teams for the tournament, while four other teams will be from Europe. Apart from Serengeti Boys other teams, which will be engaging in the Antalya tournament are Uganda, Morocco, Cameroon, Nigeria, Senegal, Guinea and Angola. Angola are the COSAFA U-17 defending Champions after beating South Africa 1-0 in the final at the Stade St Francois Xavier in Port Louis, Mauritius last July. Serengeti Boys have just returned home after excelling at the 2018 Africa Union Sport Council (AUSC) Region Five Youth Games involving five Southern African nations staged in the capital of Botswana, Gaborone. Serengeti Boys participated in the event as guest team, but went ahead to win the tournament after defeating Angola 6-5 on penalties, after a 1-1 draw in the normal and extra time of the final game held last Sunday. The final which saw Angola taking the match lead in the 38th minute through Morais before Serengeti Boys’ Kelvin John pulled level in 78th minute, to force the final into extra time, which also ended all square. Serengeti Boys skipper, Michael Morice won the best player of the final match award. The boys under the tutelage of Coach, Oscar Milambo were pooled in group B alongside South Africa, Angola and Malawi. They managed to cruise into the final after outshining Zambia in the semifinals, which also ended in a 5-4 penalty victory following a 1-1 draw in regulation time. In group matches, they lost 2-0 to Angola before regaining their winning ways with a 2-1 victory over Malawi, which was followed by 2-0 victory over South Africa. Serengeti Boys squad which excelled in Botswana comprised of Mwinyi Abdallah, Shaban Kimwaga, Bernard Castory, Alphonce Mabula, Salum Lupepo, Amiri Njeru, Pascal Msindo, Mustapha Nankuku, Morice Michael and Jefferson Thomas. Others are Keffa James, Said Zanda, Edison Mshirakandi, Ladack Juma, Kelvin John, Salum Ally, Agiri Ngoda, Ally Hamis, Bruno Nataly, Ben Starkie, Erick Boniface, Edmund Godfrey and Mohamed Abdallah, Dominic Paul and Mohamed Abdallah.