PREVENTION through regular checkups and vaccination is the best health management and cost effective strategy than waiting for cure. This was said yesterday by Professor Fred Mhaluof, a Microbiology and Immunology expert at St. Joseph College of Health Sciences, who emphasised the importance of undergoing screening and vaccination for Hepatitis B. “I urge every Tanzanian born before 2002 to get screened and vaccinated as it is easier, safer and cost effective this way,” he remarked recently. Providing a three day screening and vaccination service at St. Joseph College of Health Sciences that ended on Friday, Dr Kandali Samwel, Molecular and Biology Scientist at Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI) said that it is important to take such vaccination because it protects the liver from being destroyed. “It was a pleasing sight to see the turn up at the college, which proved that students here understand the importance of the vaccination,” she said. ORCI has provided outreach services for screening and vaccination for the virus at the college for three days, where they got to service 60 to 100 people per day. “We planned to offer the service for two days only, but to our delight, the turn up increased and a day was added,” she said. Expounding further, she explained that Hepatitis B is a virus that attacks the liver and might end causing other diseases such as cancer, liver cirrhosis and weakening the liver or liver failure. “The liver is one of the vital body organs that among other functions helps in detoxifying chemicals and metabolises drugs in the body, and if it is destroyed, the entire body system is affected,” she stated. Adding that, “everyone born before 2002 should get their health checked and vaccinated for Hepatitis B, as babies born in Tanzania from 2002 have received the vaccination.” She said that the vaccination is not harmful and can be taken by a pregnant or breastfeeding mother. She added that it is also imperative to screen and get vaccinated since a person can live with the virus with no symptoms, only to be diagnosed when it is too late or in a critical condition, because for the symptoms to show depends on the person’s body immune system. “One in every 20 people is said to be infected with Hepatitis B. The virus is spread through body fluids, from mother to child during birth as well as sexual contact,” she explained. Dr Samwel said that it is not easy for a person to be certain that they have Hepatitis B symptoms until they are screened, but said that most observable symptoms include having yellow eyes, known as jaundice and blood loss since one of the liver’s function is to secrete enzymes that produce red blood cell. “Once you remove one enemy and get certain that you are good when it comes to Hepatitis B, then you are protecting yourself from other attacks of the liver,” she remarked. The doctor said that ORCI provides such service as directed by the Ministry of Health. She invited researchers to conduct more studies on the matter as it lacks enough and current data. On the other hand, the college’s president, Mr Bonaventura Matogo advised citizens to turn up and get screened and vaccinated because it will be one disease down and immunity up.