DEBUTANTS Tanzania crashed out of the Beach Soccer Africa Cup of Nations (BSAFCON) after yesterday’s 12-2 heavy loss to Senegal in Egypt. It was the second consecutive loss Tanzania suffered in the campaign after conceding a 5-2 defeat to Libya in their opening match on Saturday. The country’s flag carriers who were packed in group B of this year’s BSAFCON, were required to win at all cost to revive their hopes of reaching further into the continental level tournament, but the loss blew away that opportunity as they missed possible 6 points from the two games. Tanzania failed to shine past its tough opponents such as Libya and Nigeria, the country our team will face today in their last group match. Tanzania will play their final game today against Nigeria who drew 4-4 with Senegal in the opening day of the competition but the former collected maximum points after a 2-0 post-match penalty triumph. Debutants Tanzania took on Libya in their first ever match in the Beach Soccer Africa Cup of Nations, a side that previously finished eighth in every edition they had competed. It was a closer tie than many expected, the second period finished with the Libyans leading by a single goal. The third period was more of the same. Structured attacks from both sides, which were met by solid defence, keeping the score unchanged until a Waleed throw-in was met by the diving head of Zuheir, and the lead was extended to two goals once more. However, Zuheir claimed a brace of his own for Libya and with just a matter of minutes remaining on the clock; the country’s side looked dejected as the score sat at 5-2. Earlier yesterday, Madagascar snatched late winner against Ivory Coast in opening game of the day after posting a convincing 4-3 victory. Leading for most of the game, Regis grabbed the late winner from the penalty spot for Madagascar to claim a tight opening bout for both sides. Both of these African powerhouses competed in the last CAF Beach Soccer Africa Cup of Nations in Nigeria in 2016. However, they didn’t meet in the competition, being drawn in different groups and neither of them managed to progress past the group stages. But both have strong history in the competition, as Côte d’Ivoire finished runners-up in both 2009 and 2013, while Madagascar won the 2015 edition in Seychelles, and it was them who immediately set the pace of their opening tie in Sharm El Sheikh. With two seconds on the clock, Regis volleyed in the game’s first goal, directly from kick off and before the Côte d’Ivoire had time to blink, they were behind. It wasn’t too long before they had a reply though, as Aka found some space to bury the equaliser. A sweet strike from the Madagascan, Fitana, saw the lead retaken, only to be cancelled out a few minutes before the first break, when Aka burst down the left flank to drive in another equaliser and the teams were equal as the first whistle blew. High pressure tactics saw Madagascar driving forward straight from the start of the second period and before long their diligent work forced an error from the Ivorian number one, Cocou, who gave a penalty which Ymelda calmly put away. In the lead once more, the men in white and green did well to maintain this slender lead into the second break, as the third period got underway with the score at 2-3. Try as they might, the Ivorians just could not break through their rivals’ defence.