YOUNG Africans swept the November awards in which, Congolese striker, Heritier Makambo has won the November Player of the Month, while Congolese tactician, Mwinyi Zahera won the coach of the month Makambo won the best player in the Mainland Premier League, after beating two finalists to the award following an impressive run at his club. The striker was declared winner after he saw off challenge from Said Dilunga of Ruvu Shooting and Yanga defender Abdallah Shaibu ‘Ninja’, who were nominated by the Award Committee of the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB). According to a statement released yesterday by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, Makambo selection followed recommendations from a pool of premier league coaches. He said during the month of November, Yanga played four league matches in which, they collected ten points, winning three matches and registering a draw. Ndimbo said Makambo made huge contribution for his team during that period, scoring three goals. Ndimbo said defender, Shaibu also made significant contribution, while Dilunga was also instrumental for his team, Ruvu Shooting, scoring three goals in three matches, which his team played during the period. Makambo will be handed an Azam TV decoder and 1m/- for his win. The Award Committee also picked Yanga tactician, Zahera as the best coach for the month of November, brushing aside competition from Coastal Union Head Coach, Juma Mgunda and Alliance FC Stand In coach, Gilbert Dadi. During the month, Zahera led his team to amass ten points, winning three and posting a draw. Yanga beat Mwadui 2-1 at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga, beat Kagera Sugar 2-1 at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba and they registered a 3-0 win over JKT Tanzania at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. They were held to a 1-1 draw by Ndanda FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Mgunda led Coastal Union to post victories against Stand United (2-1) away at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga and won 1-0 against Ndanda at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga, while Dadi led Alliance to two victories against Singida United (1-0) and Mtibwa Sugar (1-0) both matches held at the Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza. Simba striker, Emmanuel Okwi secured the Mainland Premier League player of the month award for October after a string of good performances in the league. The Uganda hitman beat Azam FC striker, Yahya Zayd and Eliud Ambokile of Mbeya City who were nominated by the Award Committee of the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB).