THE Kisutu Resident Magistrates' Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday sentenced two Pakistani nationals, to three years’ imprisonment or pay 1m/- fine for engaging in occupation without valid working permits. They managed to pay the fine and were set free. They are Mohamed Sadiq (53) a consultant and Shahid Khan (51) who were employees of Kiwalani Metro Steel Industry Limited. Principal Resident Magistrate Wilbard Mashauri imposed such sentence to the foreigners after convicting them on their own plea of guilty. The Magistrate further ordered that the two convicts be deported to their home country within 36 hours after imposing the sentence, while giving the task to the Immigration Department. "I came to the conclusion after having considered submissions from the prosecution based on how serious the offence is and that of the defence which claimed lenience to the accused as first offenders," alleged the Magistrate. Earlier on, while reading the facts of the case, Principal State Attorney Wankyo Simon alleged that the accused entered the country in 2017 for the purpose of working and doing various activities. He further alleged that Sadiq is the owner of passport no AD9981953 and he was given a Tanzanian visa for 90 days from November 11, 2017 which was supposed to last on February 14, 2018. Since the date the accused has been living in the country without a visa. It was also claimed that the second accused, owner of passport no JS4100083 and was given Tanzanian visa from December 18, 2017 which was supposed to expire on March 18, 2018, from the date the accused lived in the country without any permit. The two accused were claimed to be the employees of a company named Metro Steel Industry Ltd located at Kiwalani area in Ilala District, Dar es Salaam Region. According to the prosecutor throughout their employment, the accused did not possess working permits which therefore had no prerequisite qualifications to work in the country. Following the allegations, investigations were lodged on them which mounted to their arrest. Upon interrogation, they confessed to the police officers of working in the country without valid permits. It was alleged that the investigation discovered that the accused were arrested along with one Rajab Muhdin Mbegu, a human resources officer who granted them the said employment with the company. In support of the facts, the prosecutor tendered to the court which include two passports belonging to the accused along with a seizure certificate and two statements. The prosecutor had submitted that the accused have no previous criminal records, but based on how serious the offence to the security of the country, they should be granted severe punishment. On the other hand, Defence Counsel, Charles Alex requested the court for lenience on behalf of the accused as they were first offenders and for confessing to committing the offence on their own plea of guilty.