HEARING of a 600m/- fraud and money laundering case involving former Simba SC top leaders failed to proceed yesterday because the court was attending to other official matters. The former leaders include former president Evans Aveva, his V ice Geoffrey Nyange and Players’ Registration Committee Chairman Zacharia Hans Poppe. Kisutu Senior Resident Magistrate, Thomas Simba notified the court that he was forced to adjourn the case proceedings to another date, because of the situation they were facing. “I’m forced to adjourn this case because I’m supposed to have another session today, whose witness has been in the city for three days now. Considering that the government is covering his expenses, to have him stay for a few more days is quite expensive,” he said. Earlier on, a Prosecutor with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Leonard Swai informed the court that the matter was brought for hearing. For, the court is attending to other official obligations, he requested for another date when the case will continue with hearing. Senior Magistrate Simba adjourned the hearing to next Wednesday, in which all the anticipated witnesses will testify in the case. Initially, they were supposed to testify in yesterday session. It is alleged that the accused persons forged a transfer of funds report form on March 15, last year, in the city. With intent to defraud or deceit, the accused persons allegedly purported to show that Simba Sports Club was repaying a loan of the said 300,000 US dollars to former club’s president Evance Aveva, while it was not true. The prosecution alleged further that on the same day at CRDB Bank PLC, Azikiwe Branch in Ilala District, knowingly and fraudulently, Aveva uttered the said form to the bank, purporting that the club was repaying the said amount as loan to him. It is alleged that between March 15 and July 29, 2016, in Dar es Salaam, jointly and together, the two club leaders conspired to commit the offence of money laundering by acquiring the said 300,000 US dollars while they knew that the money was proceeds of a predicate offence of forgery. The court has been told further that on March 15, 2016, at Barclays Bank Tanzania Limited at Mikocheni Branch in Kinondoni District, Aveva acquired the said money from the Bank while at the time of such acquisition he knew the money was proceeds of offence of forgery. On the same day and the bank, Nyange aided and abated Aveva to acquire the money from the bank, while knowing that the said money was proceeds of a crime of forgery of the transfer of funds report form.