SEVERAL senior officials with the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) here have been arrested and questioned over alleged sale of 30 tonnes of food that is not fit for human consumption. Reports reaching the ‘Daily News’ have it that five officials were arrested and detained on December 14 this year, accused of selling damaged maize to Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) that was to be supplied to communities living around and in the park. However, it has emerged that the food had no quality and could only be consumed by animals. Those arrested are Acting Regional Manager, Ramadhani Nondo, Chief Accountant John Mfinanga, Warehouse Officer Hamis Njarita, Quality Assurance Officer Mgala Mgala and Weighing Clerk Daniel Kandonga. When contacted for verification, Arusha Regional Police Commander (RPC) Ramadhani Ng’anzi said he was not in a position to speak about the matter; saying he would do so after Christmas that is being celebrated today. He neither conceded nor denied that the alleged officials were arrested and detained or have been released on bail. It is said that they were released on bail on December 21 after thorough grilling. NCAA officials refused to accept the 30 tonnes of maize after it was satisfied that it had gone bad, but that it had already paid fully for the food, although figures were not put bare. NCAA reported the matter to the Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) that took some four sacks for investigation purposes but to date no report has been made available on the investigation aspect. NFRA Chief Executive Officer Vumilia Zikamkuba who was said to have travelled to Arusha to get a clear picture of the matter told the ‘Daily News’ that she knew nothing of the issue when pressed on phone to issue explanation on her officials’ alleged criminal act. She, however, promised to make follow-ups on the matter, now that she had heard of it from the ‘Daily News’. When contacted, NCAA Park, Community Development and Tourism Commissioner, Dr Maurus Msuha said he could not speak of the issue as it was already at regional government’s level. NCAA has cultivated a culture of supplying food free to pastoral communities in the area. NFRA is the government owned agency. 