LIVESTOCK and Fisheries Minister Luhaga Mpina has launched a nationwide campaign, where all livestock would be dipped to control spread of diseases caused by ticks and related pests. In the exercise, he said that about 347m/- has been allocated to purchase 10,232.53 litres of chemicals in the first phase. However, Mr Mpinga warned Regional and District authorities not to misuse the chance to overcharge livestock keepers, extra money for their personal financial gains. “The government is committed to control the spread of diseases, and dipping of the animals would be undertaken for six consecutive months,” he stated, when launching the exercise at Buzirayombo dip pond in Geita. He directed that each dipping facility should form a cooperative and open a bank account, where money paid by the livestock keepers, would be deposited directly, instead of being sent to either the ministry or local government authorities. According to the minister, the dipping would be undertaken in 1,409 dips which are currently in operation, noting further that additional 1,019 ones are being repaired, so that the operations start well in the next phase planned for June, next year. “Any local government authority failing to execute the plan would be barred from collecting any revenue from the livestock sector,” he warned. In another development, Minister Mpina revoked appointments of veterinarians he had promoted to District Veterinary Officers and Regional Veterinary Officers due to poor performance in their areas of work for failure to manage dipping facilities, and livestock auctions, among others. Mr Mpina hinted that the government was determined to check spread of livestock diseases, and supply of medicines and vaccines by strengthening the Kibahabased Tanzania Veterinary Institute (TVI) and the Tanzania Veterinary Laboratory Agency (TVLA). “Livestock keepers are thus encouraged to make best use of this exercise to dip their animals as per schedules to be set up in their respective areas. Responsible authorities should also prepare guidelines on implementation of the exercise and distribute them to local authorities,” he directed. The Director Livestock Services in the ministry, Dk Hezron Nonga, said Tanzania faces about 32 livestock diseases, which are the leading causes of deaths of animals each year. Dr Nonga cited the disease as East Coast Fever (ECF) which kills fast and costs a lot in treatment and chances of healing are little, among other diseases. The technocrat explained that the dipping would be carried out in 1,409 dips countrywide, which currently have been distributed with 7.25 litres, where livestock keepers would be offered to dip initial 2,000 animals for free of charge. After that, they will be subjected to pay 600/- per cow and 120/- per goat in a period of six months.