ALTHOUGH a cross-section of analysts are critical of some provisions of the Service Social Security Fund (General) Regulations, 2018, some retirees have commended the government’s move, saying changes in the retirement pension will increase pensioners’ income. Critics say a reduction in retirement lump sum payment from 50 per cent to 25 per cent reduces the Public Service Social Security Fund (PSSF) member’s retirement benefits her or she is entitled to. “You need financial security after retirement in form of lump sum payment of 50 per cent, but it has been reduced to 25 per cent only. This is tragic,” said Arusha resident Lawi Odunga by phone. He noted that a retiree should have good money in his or her pocket after retirement to maintain themselves and live in peace. “When you reduce lump sum payment, you are subjecting such persons to financial hardships,” he said. But Dar es Salaam resident Willy Mbunga, who retired in 1992, supported the government’s move, saying 75 per cent monthly payment would improve the retiree’s financial status. “This is a good move. You have substantial income at your disposal and it will save retirees from depending on their children,” he said. Mr Joel Kajula, a Dar es Salaam retiree since 1998, shared Mr Mbunga’s views, saying supporters of the lump sum payment thought they would not live long after retirement. “They are mistaken. One may end up living for 20 more years after retirement as it has happened to me. That is why improved postretirement monthly payment becomes significant…It is better to save a substantial amount of money for tomorrow than spend everything today and end up regretting, when tomorrow comes,” he stressed. Mr Kajula supported the government’s move, saying it was pro-retirees. For his part, Mr Israel Nunda, a member of the Public Service Social Security Fund (PSSF) and a resident of Dar es Salaam, said the government’s move on lump sum payment reduced the risk of losing a bigger part of the retiree’s money by investing it in projects that might not yield positive results. “If one gets a lot of money in terms of retirement payment, he may end up injecting the entire amount into a business project without considering potential risks and that may lead to losing all money,” he said. He said the government’s move was in line with the PSSF’s objectives to enable retirees meet their daily needs after retirement.