THE government has been advised to inscribe Mount Kilimanjaro’s name on the national airline, in a bid to promote the continent rooftop to the world. The move seeks to lure more tourists to visit the country and climb the highest mountain in Africa. Delivering a speech on behalf of the Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner yesterday, Siha District Commissioner Onesmo Buswelu, said the rest of the world will be able to identify the national aircraft with the mountain, a move he said was likely to boost the prospects of the tourism industry. “The Dreamliner will have Mt Kilimanjaro’s name whenever and wherever it flies, and it will be a strategy of getting more tourists who will visit Tanzania,” explained the DC while receiving a group of 52 climbers who had scaled the world tallest stand-alone mountain in marking Tanzania’s 57th independence anniversary. According to the DC, some foreigners were using the Mountain’s name as a bait of attracting customers, despite the fact that Kilimanjaro is in Tanzania. He said inscribing the mountain’s name on the Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) fleet will demystify facts about the mountain’s location which has over the years become a bone of contention. “Some of the agents and tour operators in neighbouring countries have also been cashing in from the mountain by deceiving their clients on where the Kilimanjaro is located,” he said. He further urged regional leaders to resolve the disputes pitting Kilimanjaro National Park (KINAPA) and the residents living on the mountain’s foothills. In the same vein, Mr Buswelu challenged fellow DCs all over the country to organise a special Kili climb campaign as a way of promoting the Africa’s highest peak. He urged tour operating companies in the region to ensure that porters and tour guides who assist climbers in scaling the Kili are paid well and on time. Detailing on Kili climb expedition, Lieutenant General James Mwakibolwa (retired) said out of the 52 people who signed up for the challenge, only 33 managed to reach the summit while remaining 19 ended the challenge at various points. He challenged those who successfully climbed the mountain to become good ambassadors in promoting Africa’s rooftop wherever they are. On his part, board chairperson of the Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) (retired) Chief of the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) General George Marwa Waitara, said the mountain’s vegetation continued to blossom and was still intact, appealing to tourists. The six-day Kili climb featured TPDF soldiers, Tanapa officials, staff from the Benjamin Mkapa Foundation and journalists from different media houses.