EXPORT Processing Zone Authority (EPZA) has commended Geita Region for putting conducive environment for establishing Special Economic Zone while pledging to offer technical expertise on the project that will spur development of the region and the country. EPZA’s Director of Investment and Promotion and Facilitation, James Maziku made the remarks after hosting a delegation from Geita Region that was in the learning tour at the export processing industries on how to establish and attract investors into the SEZ. “I commend Geita Region for putting favourable environment including 500 hectares of land for the envisaged SEZ,” he said while encouraging other regions to emulate Geita Region on the efforts to establish SEZ. He added, “Any foreign investor wants to access land that is connected to important infrastructures such as roads, water and electricity, therefore I commend Geita region for this important economic milestone.” On his part, the head of delegation from Geita District, Leonard Bugomola said the newly built Chato Airport is set to promote business growth through industrial construction and hospitality sector as well as service industry. “The newly built Chato airport will attract tourism and investors for it will be easier to reach Geita Region which is a strategic investment area with all needed facilities ranging from enough land for industrial construction, tourism attraction and places for building hotels and related infrastructure.” The region also enjoys good geographical location and climatic condition that supports agricultural activities which doesn’t only create employment to Tanzanians but also are important source of food and raw materials for agro processing factories when are in place. He cited industries suitable to be built includes textile due to bumping annual cotton harvests, fruits for juice, food processing and cereals. “I therefore call for Tanzanians to come and grab opportunities for the forthcoming transformed Geita Region as it embraces industrial agenda.” he said.