CHAMA Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) yesterday approved the government’s speedy implementation of 2015/20 election manifesto, saying the union and Zanzibar governments were performing well especially in delivery of social services. The ruling party’s National Executive Committee (NEC), which sat in Dar es Salaam, among other issues, appreciated the administrations of President John Magufuli and Zanzibar’s Dr Ali Mohamed Shein for effectively working on the party’s pledges. Briefing reporters shortly after NEC meeting, the party’s Secretary General, Dr Bashiru Ally said so far both governments are doing well especially on delivery of social services, saying the committee has instructed both governments to keep on the same spirit. Meanwhile, NEC has pardoned four CCM members who were expelled from the party and striped off of their titles. They are Ramadhan Madabida who was CCM’s Dar es Salaam Regional Chairperson, Erasto Kwirasa from Shinyanga region, Christopher Sanya (Manyara region) and former Dar es Salaam’s Kinondoni District Chairperson Salum Madenge. “But the party is making a close follow up to the former chairlady of CCM in Iringa region, Ms Jesca Msambatavangu. She is among those who have asked for forgiveness,” he explained. The members were expelled from the party after finding them guilty of misconduct and indiscipline. At the same vein, the party has strongly warned its member, Hasnain Murji who was facing ethical charges. “Meanwhile, NEC has approved the name of Abdalla Mtolea as its flag bearer in the Temeke by-election,” said Dr Bashiru, playing down rumours that went viral on social media that one of NEC Members Stephen Wassira was denied entry to the meeting at the State House in Dar es Salaam. “It was fake news… we were with Mr Wassira from the beginning to the end of the meeting and he was an active member with strong contributions, whatever was said on social media was untrue,” he clarified. NEC has further approved names of various candidates in the party’s election to fill various seats that were left vacant due to different reasons, including appointments and deaths. Candidates for the member of the NEC seat from CCM’s Parents wing are Dr Damas Kashegu, Asha Feruzi, Galila Wabanhu and Makene Boniphas. Candidates competing for CCM chair in Iringa region are Dr Abel Mwendawile, Aman Mwamwindi and Sabas Mushi. “Another seat is for Secretary for publicity and Ideology for Simiyu region which will be contested by Mashaka Makongoro, Mayunga Ngokolo and Heri Zebedayo,” said Dr Bashiru. Mr Bahebe Ezekiel, Nyiriza Nyiriza, Masso Jane and Misogalya Kassile will vie for the Mwanza region’s parent wing chair while Amina Kobo, Lemmy Ludovick and Himidi Shebuge will vie for Kibaha Rural District’s chair. During the meeting, NEC trashed all objections that were filed against some of the elected party leaders, including Dr Anthony Dialo as CCM Chairman for Mwanza region, Aisha Ally (Chairlady of CCM women wing in Lindi region), Chairman of CCM in Ngara District in Kagera region George Rubagora and NEC member Salim Mohamed.