PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday pardoned 4,477 prisoners ahead of the country’s commemoration of the 57th independence anniversary tomorrow.  Under the presidential pardon, 1,176 prisoners will walk out freely, with the other 3,301 inmates remaining behind bars to serve quarter of their prison term. Addressing the nation, Dr Magufuli (pictured below) said he had also reduced jail terms of convicts who have served quarter of their jail sentences as per article 49 (1) of the Prisons Act section 58. Forgiven are elders aged 70 years and above, pregnant women and mothers who entered jails with babies as well as prisoners with body or mental disabilities. “But the reprieve does not involve prisoners on death and life sentences, those involved in drugs, corruption, illegal weapons and rape,” said President Magufuli. The amnesty also excludes those convicted of impregnating schoolgirls, theft and jailbirds serving their sentences under the Parole Board Law. Prisoners for misuse of public offices are as well not part of the beneficiaries of the presidential pardon. However, President Magufuli insisted that there will be no stage event to celebrate the 57th independence anniversary tomorrow, saying the 1b/- budget for the celebrations will be spent on construction of a new hospital in Dodoma. The decision, he said, was reached to ease patients’ congestion at Dodoma’s Benjamin Mkapa hospital and regional hospital—General. The cancelled celebrations were to be held in Dar es Salaam. This is the second time the head of state has taken such a bold decision. In 2015, Dr Magufuli cancelled the independence celebrations and redirected the budget to the expansion of a four-kilometre Morocco-Mwenge stretch of the new Bagamoyo road in Dar es Salaam. President Magufuli, in his statement yesterday, implored Tanzanians to mark the day by reflecting on the importance of the independence they have as well as commitment of the late founding father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere who played a key role to liberate the nation from the British dominance. “I sincerely commend the good work of the late Mwalimu Nyerere to liberate our country…I also appreciate all leaders of other phases, they indeed did a great job,” he said. He noted that since independence the country has made big steps to improve people’s welfare and delivery of social services, including education and economic growth. President Magufuli said other achievements that the country has registered include 30tri/- development projects that have elevated Tanzania into the list of African countries with fast growing economies. The president also underscored the importance of maintaining the country’s peace and harmony as the source and engine of all development. “We have also been able to improve infrastructure and fight corruption, so I call upon all my fellow Tanzanians to constantly support the government on its efforts towards development,” he said.