TANZANIAN health facilities are consistently registering admirable successes, one of the latest manifestations being the ability by a local medical expert at Bugando Medical Centre (BMC) to perform brain and spine surgeries. In the near past, it was impossible to get the two services in the country, patients being forced to dig deeper into their pockets to pursue the specialised medication overseas, particularly in India. The good news is that Tanzanians can now access the rare medication at their localities with BMC now building more capacities for its local surgeons to undertake spine and brain operations. An orthopaedic surgeon at BMC, Dr Isdory Ngayomela, told reporters at the weekend that he was now capable of attending patients with the two problems without necessarily referring them to hospitals outside the country. “I am informing the general public that we are now capable of conducting spinal surgery; we conducted brain surgery on two patients and spinal surgery on eight others; and we are set to conduct more in the future,” the confident surgeon said. Over the last five years, Dr Ngayomela has been under the direct supervision of visiting specialist Dr Christopher Comey from St Francis Hospital in America who has been providing spinal surgery services at BMC twice a year as well as teaching locals on the highly specialised skills. According to Dr Ngayomela, given the training he acquired from Dr Comey, he was gaining more confidence and professionalism in performing the surgeries, thanking the expert for his expertise and supports to local surgeons at the zonal referral hospital. Apart from him, orthopaedic nurses have also benefitted from the arrangement between BMC and US based facility with one nurse leaving this month accompanied by Dr Comey for a two months specialised course at the St Francis Hospital, expecting to train other nurses upon her return. Speaking on his mission at BMC, Dr Comey said he was privileged to work with talented surgeons at Bugando, expressing confidence in Dr Ngayomela who he said could now handle spinal surgeries without direct supervision anymore. “I am happy to see colleagues here conducting excellent surgeries and I hope they are capable of doing more despite fewer resources and equipment. In the US we have better resources but here there are talented and clever doctors,” he said. Two patients, Husna Busunzu (12) and Stanford Lungu (22) are among the ten patients who underwent spinal surgery and thanked God for recovering after sustaining serious defects of the spine in different circumstances. The two are asked to pay not more than 350,000/- each as operation costs which is highly subsidized compared with the costs charged in hospitals outside the country. Records show that in India for instance, there is something called special treatment for Tanzanian patients; for each spinal surgery, one is supposed to part with between 5000 US dollars (around 12m/-) to 12,000 US dollars (around 25m/-) depending on the case.