THE United States of America has committed 506bn/- ($220m/-) for Energy Sector improvement in the East African Community (EAC). Speaking here at the weekend, EAC Secretary General, Ambassador Libérat Mfumukeko, said the funding would be channelled through US’s Power Africa Initiative that aims at supporting economic growth and development by increasing access to reliable, affordable and sustainable power in Africa. “The US support to the region is a crucial one especially when the EAC is undertaking some major projects in realising the integration agenda,” said the EAC boss. Mr Mfumukeko described the US as one of the ‘strongest partners’ in helping the regional economic bloc execute some of its projects. “They are also exploring on other avenues of support,” hinted the EAC Secretary General. Power Africa is a five-year American presidential initiative launched by President Barack Obama in Tanzania during his Africa Tour in July 2013. The programme is designed as a multi-stakeholder partnership among the governments of the United States of America, Tanzania, Kenya, Ethiopia, Ghana, Nigeria and Liberia, the US and the African private sector. The United States of America, through its development agency USAID, with close collaboration from the AfDB, have taken the lead in shaping a list of priority power transactions across the six main focus countries where interventions will enable them reach significant milestones. In his rejoinder, USAID’s Mission Director for Kenya and East Africa, Mark Andrew Meassick, said the agency was committed to opening the EAC to better cross-border cooperation. “We are now looking on how to expand our partnership especially in the energy sector,” said the Mr Meassick. He added that the USAID was committed to see the region not only having enough power, but also increase the number of East Africans with power connectivity. Last month, the EAC launched an energy security policy framework as it attempts to reduce electricity costs and ensure reliable supply. The policy framework, developed in partnership with the UN Economic Commission for Africa, was at the   22nd meeting of the Intergovernmental Committee of Experts (ICE) in Kigali. Currently, the EAC is grappling with high energy costs as well as unstable electricity supply to light homes and power the region’s growing industrial sector. Studies by EAC show that the lack of secure electricity supply lowers the pace at which the region is growing by 2 to 5 per cent of GDP. The heavy dependency on fossil fuels and the lack of the oil refinery infrastructure has driven petroleum imports to over 10 per cent of GDP in the East African region. About 90 per cent of the EAC population relies on biomass (charcoal and firewood) for energy sources, which leads to a massive deforestation and creates long-term risks to the security and sustainability of the energy supply. THE United States of America has committed 506bn/- ($220m/-) for Energy Sector improvement in the East African Community (EAC). Speaking here at the weekend, EAC Secretary General, Ambassador Libérat Mfumukeko, said the funding would be channelled through US’s Power Africa Initiative that aims at supporting economic growth and development by increasing access to reliable, affordable and sustainable power in Africa. “The US support to the region is a crucial one especially when the EAC is undertaking some major projects in realising the integration agenda,” said the EAC boss. Mr Mfumukeko described the US as one of the ‘strongest partners’ in helping the regional economic bloc execute some of its projects. “They are also exploring on other avenues of support,” hinted the EAC Secretary General. Power Africa is a five-year American presidential initiative launched by President Barack Obama in Tanzania during his Africa Tour in July 2013. The programme is designed as a multi-stakeholder partnership among the governments of the United States of America, Tanzania, Kenya, Ethiopia, Ghana, Nigeria and Liberia, the US and the African private sector. The United States of America, through its development agency USAID, with close collaboration from the AfDB, have taken the lead in shaping a list of priority power transactions across the six main focus countries where interventions will enable them reach significant milestones. In his rejoinder, USAID’s Mission Director for Kenya and East Africa, Mark Andrew Meassick, said the agency was committed to opening the EAC to better cross-border cooperation. “We are now looking on how to expand our partnership especially in the energy sector,” said the Mr Meassick. He added that the USAID was committed to see the region not only having enough power, but also increase the number of East Africans with power connectivity. Last month, the EAC launched an energy security policy framework as it attempts to reduce electricity costs and ensure reliable supply. The policy framework, developed in partnership with the UN Economic Commission for Africa, was at the   22nd meeting of the Intergovernmental Committee of Experts (ICE) in Kigali. Currently, the EAC is grappling with high energy costs as well as unstable electricity supply to light homes and power the region’s growing industrial sector. Studies by EAC show that the lack of secure electricity supply lowers the pace at which the region is growing by 2 to 5 per cent of GDP. The heavy dependency on fossil fuels and the lack of the oil refinery infrastructure has driven petroleum imports to over 10 per cent of GDP in the East African region. About 90 per cent of the EAC population relies on biomass (charcoal and firewood) for energy sources, which leads to a massive deforestation and creates long-term risks to the security and sustainability of the energy supply.