OVER 300,000 job seekers have applied for 594,200 jobs that were announced through the President’s Office, Public Service Recruitment Secretariat (PSRS) over the past three years. Addressing a news conference in Dar es Salaam on Monday, a senior official handling the exercise in the recruitment in the President’s Office, Mr Xavier Daudi, said the recruitment portal system was successful since it reduced the recruitment process from 90 to 50 days. He added that the system had also helped to reduce applicants’ complaints, which involved undelivered application emails. He said since the fifth phase government was installed, the secretariat had managed to improve the system for the betterment of wananchi. He cited the improved areas as the operation of the recruitment process to fill vacancies in the public service, strengthening the system in the use of information technology, and communication in operating the process of employment as well as control of unqualified job applicants, including identifying those with forged certificates. According to Mr Daudi, the secretariat was continuing to conduct inspection of various documents to identify non-qualified applicants. “During 2015/2018, a total of 18,817 applicants’ certificates were submitted to the relevant authorities in order to be verified. At least 18,112 certificates were valid while 706 were forged,” he said. According to him, from November 2015 to 15 December this year, the secretariat had announced a total of 6,554 open positions in ministries, departments, agencies, regional secretaries, municipalities, councils and various higher academic institutions. “A total of 594,200 job applications were received and acted upon, and at least 140,000 applicants were invited for interviews,” he said. He noted that by December 15 this year, 6,099 vacancies had been filled, and 455 posts had been advertised between November and December, 2018. He stressed that the number could be increased in the current fiscal year 2018/2019, covering teachers, health workers and security agency staff. He recalled that increasing employment opportunities in the public service and other sectors was one of the promises highlighted in the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) manifesto which was emphasised during the 2015 election campaign. Human resources has been cited as one of the major drivers of the industrial economy status to which Tanzania aspires. Mr Daudi further explained that the secretariat office had broadened its operating capacity by opening offices in Zanzibar.