HEARING of a 600m/- fraud and money laundering case involving former Simba leaders failed to proceed yesterday and moved forward to January 3rd, 2019 as the lawyer of accused part was away attending other official matters. The former leaders are the former Simba President Evans Aveva, his Vice Geoffrey Nyange and Players’ Registration Committee Chairman, Zacharia Hans Poppe. Kisutu Senior Resident Magistrate, Thomas Simba notified the court that he was forced to adjourn the case proceedings to another date, because of the situation they were facing. “I’m forced to adjourn this case today until January 3rd 2019, because the lawyer of the accused is attending other official matters,” he said. Earlier on, a Prosecutor with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Leonard Swai informed the court that the matter was brought for hearing because investigation has been completed and prosecution has already established two witnesses to testify in the case. Senior Magistrate Simba adjourned the hearing to January next year, in which all the witnesses will testify in the case. Initially, they were supposed to testify in yesterday session . It is alleged that the accused persons forged a report on transfer of funds on March 15, last year, in the city with an intent to defraud or deceit. The accused persons allegedly purported to show that Simba Sports Club was repaying a loan of the said 300,000 US dollars to the former club’s President Evance Aveva, while it was not true. The prosecution alleged further that on the same day at CRDB Bank PLC, Azikiwe Branch in Ilala District, knowingly and fraudulently, Aveva uttered the said form to the bank, purporting that the club was repaying the said amount as loan to him. It is alleged that between March 15 and July 29, 2016, in Dar es Salaam, jointly and together, the two club leaders conspired to commit the offence of money laundering by acquiring the said 300,000 US dollars while they knew that the money was proceeds of a predicate offence of forgery.