THE Resident Magistrate's Court in Singida has acquitted businessman Haidar Hussein Gulamali who was charged with giving 2m/- as bribe to Regional Intelligence Officer, Kiseo Nzowa during the parliamentary elections in 2015 under Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM). Resident Magistrate in Charge of the Court, Consolata Singano dismissed the bribery case against the businessman after finding him with no case to answer. She ruled that the prosecution under Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) failed to establish a prima facie case against Gulamali. During hearing of the case, the prosecution called nine witnesses. The magistrate said that after closely scrutinizing the evidence tendered, she observed that none of the witnesses' testimony touched the businessman in his involvement in the bribery scandal. In the case under which the businessman was defended by advocate Godfrey Wasonga, the magistrate pointed out one of the reasons supporting the court's decision as contradiction on three prosecution witnesses on the envelope that contained the money for the alleged bribe. She said that in their testimony, each witness mentioned different colours of envelop, with one saying it was "Kaki", another said the envelope was white in colour, while the other mentioned brown as the colour of the envelop, something that the court failed to understand which envelope was carrying the money. The magistrate further pointed out that the arrest procedures were not properly identified because there was no place where money involved in the commission of the offence was taken from the accused before being tendered in court, and how they were kept until submitted as evidence. Under such circumstances, therefore, the magistrate had no other option than dismissing the case, a result which made the businessman to walk a free man. In the case, among the witnesses who testified for the prosecution was the Singida Regional Intelligence Officer, Mr Kiseo Nzowa, who was alleged to have been given the money as bribe. The witness had told the court that he was performing his duties in accordance with the law and that Gulamali gave him the money to help him pass his name on the North Singida parliamentary elections race, as he was not a member of the Political District Committee. Officer of the PCCB, Maghela Ndimbo, who prosecuted the case, told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ that they have been aggrieved by the court's decision and they will appeal to the High Court against the verdict. He disclosed that the prosecution has already lodged a notice of appeal to initiate the appeal. According to him, the prosecution has noted some misdirection in the part of the magistrate in her decision, in particular the contradiction of the colour of the envelop that contained the money meant for bribe. He said that there was no contradiction of such nature in the case No. 5 of 2018. Instead, the prosecutor further reacted that the magistrate used evidence of another case No. 254 of 2017, to her conclusion of the matter, while such proceedings were dropped by the prosecution after entering "nolle prosequi" certificate.