MAINLAND champions Simba will need to win at home against Zambia’s Nkana FC, to progress into the group stage of CAF Champions League, after going down 2-1 in Kitwe yesterday. Another Mainland side, Mtibwa Sugar, will have to score four clear goals at home to overturn a 3-0 defeat they suffered in Kampala, Uganda yesterday at the hand of KCCA in the CAF Confederation Cup. At Kitwe Stadium, Ronald Kampamba and Kelvin Mubanga Kampamba scored a goal each in either half for Nkana, while skipper and striker, John Bocco pulled one for Simba in a fire skirmish clash. Simba will now need at least 1-0 win at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam to sail through into the group stage of the continental top tier clubs championship. A defeat or draw of any kind will see Simba crash out of the championship. The first round, first leg was dominated by the hosts, as Simba played more cautiously, seemingly to avoid conceding many goals and at the same time, attempt to hit their opponents on the break. The hosts won the midfield battle, where Harrison Chisala and Kenyan Duncan Otieno were dominant, keeping Simba’s playmaker Zambian international, Clatous Chama quiet almost throughout the game. His midfield partner, Jonas Mkude slightly looked active at the pack of the midfield, while James Kotei played more of a combative role. Ugandan striker, Emmanuel Okwi was the most lively player for Simba on the pitch, especially in the first half, while Simba defence somewhat looked porous and for the first time in many matches the central defence partnership of Ivorian Pascal Wawa and Erasto Nyoni was PG19constantly leaking. Ghanaian Nicholaus Gyan also struggled at the right wing back and again like in many other matches, he failed to deliver with his final ball. Simba survived a huge scare in the 13th minute, when Tanzanian Hassan Kessy, a former Simba and Young Africans player delivered a crisp ball inside the crowed area and skipper, Walter Bwalya twisted a turned around Gyan but his shot came off the side nets. In the 17th minute, Okwi stung goalkeeper, Allan Chibwe’s gloves with a fierce shot from a set piece and a minute later Bwalya latched onto a clever Chisala’s pass, beat Nyoni to the ball but his shot sailed wide. Then Kelvin Kampamba’s set piece in the 24th minute, found Richard Okran free in the box but the Ghanaian defender couldn’t direct his bouncing header ball into the nets. After several near misses, Nkana deservedly went ahead in the 26th minute, through Ronald Kampamba simply known as ‘Sate Sate’. Gyan gave the ball away cheaply at the centre circle and after exchange of passes, Kampamba looped his shot past off positioned Aishi Manula. At this point, Simba hardly threatened as Kenyan defender, Mohammed Musa and Okran played tough in defence to keep the striking trio of Okwi, Bocco and Meddie Kagere at bay. However, after half an hour mark Okwi sent shivers on Nkana fans with a well taken seat piece 35 metres out, which almost chipped the paints off the right bar. Nkana came close to add the second a minute before the interval, when Kessy’s pass found Bwalya in space but the striker failed to hit the target. After the break, Nkana came searching for more and Manula brilliantly denied Bwalya point blank header in the 53rd minute, after reacting quickly to a Chilasa cross and two minutes later Kelvin Kampamba netted the second for the hosts, capitalising on a poor defending. Head Coach, Patrick Aussems replaced Okwi with Shiza Kichuya and it paid off in the 72nd minute as Simba won a penalty. Mohammned Musa fouled Kagere in the box and Bocco stepped up to send keeper the wrong way and give Simba a lifeline. At the Lugogo ground in Kampala, KCCA put up a dominant performance. What looked like a wasteful afternoon ended in a dominant 3-0 win and KCCA have a foot in the next round. Goals by Allan Kyambadde, Patrick Henry Kaddu and Allan Okello condemned Mtibwa Sugar to soul searching defeat and they will now need to beat KCCA by four clear goals to progress. The return leg will be played next weekend in Dar es Salaam.