TANZANIAN conjoined twins— Maryness and Anisia—have been successfully separated at King Abdullah Children Specialist Hospital in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The twins were airlifted to Saudi Arabia for the procedure in July this year from Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), thanks to Saudi Arabia government’s offer to foot the medical bills for the twins’ separation. Report posted on the Saudi Gazette said that the operation led by Saudi Dr Abdullah Al-Rabeeah ended successfully. “This humanitarian programme has served many countries in the world and the Kingdom has, thanks to God, recorded the success of operation number 47 in the programme,” said Dr Rabeeah in a statement. Dr Rabeeah said the twins were in stable condition and medical doctors on their team were optimistic that the babies will have better quality of life after separation. The report said the 13-hour operation was carried out via nine phases, with 32 specialists, including doctors, surgeons, technicians and nursing cadres participating. The mother of the Siamese twins appreciated the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz, the Crown Prince, Vice President of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Defence for giving her daughters the opportunity to receive medical care and attention. She also thanked Dr Al Rabeeah and the entire medical team. The medical and surgical team responsible for the separation of conjoined twins decided to separate the pair after the meeting they held on Thursday under the leadership of the Advisor to the King, the General Supervisor of King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre and the head of the medical and surgical team in the separation of the twins, Dr Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz Alrabiah. Dr Alrabiah said in the press statement that the twins were linked together in the lower chest, abdomen and pelvis area, with each of them having one bottom extremity. They shared a third lower extremity, liver, intestines, urinary and reproductive system. He pointed out that the medical and surgical team after discussing the situation of the twins; they expected that the success rate will be 60 per cent after a process and that it will be implemented through nine stages with 32 specialist doctors, surgeons, technicians and nursing staff participating. Dr Abdullah Alrabiah commended the generous humanitarian initiative of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud and His Royal Highness the Crown Prince. Born at St Thereza Omukajunguti Health Centre in Missenyi District, Kagera Region on January 29, 2018, the twins were airlifted from Muhimbili to Saudi Arabia for the procedure last July under the auspices of Saudi Arabia government.