YOUNG Africans survived first half scare to floor Tanzania Prisons with 3-1 drubbing at rain soaked Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya yesterday. Tanzania Prisons, who looked clear favourites to win the match and hand Yanga their first Premier League defeat, committed series of blunders in the last 15 minutes of the match, which Yanga utilised well to slam home all three goals. A spotkick goal from Ibrahim Ajib and brace from Amis Tambwe were enough to silence Prisons yesterday and as well plunged the Prisons warders further bottom of the league table. The crucial away win placed Yanga firmly at the Premier League helm with 38 points garnered from 12-match wins and two draws. Azam who have played 14 matches are still second-placed with 32 points while Premier League title holders, Simba are still third with 27 points. But they have played 12 matches. Simba didn’t play a match this week because they are away in Mbabane Eswatini to play hosts Mbabane Swalows in the CAF Champions League match today. Prisons who played no-nonsense game in the first half, were the first to stamp an opener just a few seconds to the breather. Jumanne El Fadhil gave Prisons a lead in the 45th minute through a spotckick after a rough tackle inside the box. El Fadhil slammed home expertly leaving goalie Ramadhani Kabwili well beaten. Referee Meshack Suda from Singida awarded Prisons after defender Andrew Vincent ‘Dante’ committed foul inside the box. Yanga players vehemently protested the penalty saying it was not fair. During the fracas, Yanga player, Mrisho Khalfan Ngassa and Tanzania Prisons defender were slapped marching orders for misconduct. Yanga were still in trouble in most parts of the second half as all rounder, James Mwasote, Salum Kimenya, Jeremiah Mgunda and goalie Aaron Kalambo looked big hurdles in their attempts to level the score. Coach Mwinyi Zahera made effective substitutions in the last twenty minutes, which seemed to rejuvenate Yanga attacks upfront. The vital tool, however, was Thabani Kamusoko, whose arrival strengthened the midfield and provided vital assists to scorers. His effectiveness was further brightened by Amis Tambwe, who, initiated the two goals Yanga netted in the 76th and 85th minutes. Coach Zahera benched Juma Abdul in the 68th minute for Amis Tambwe who played a vital role in a penalty that Ajib scored to give Yanga an equaliser. Tambwe opened his season’s goal account in the 85th minute after Prisons defenders committed defensive blunders. Ibrahim Ajib levelled the score in the 76th minute through a spotkick. Tanzania Prisons defender handled the ball in an attempt to clear the ball inside the danger zone. Prisons defender, Mwasote rewarded Yanga their third goal in the injury time after stripped in an attempt to clear the ball and Tambwe rushed in timely to take the ball and slam a low shot past Kalambo.