OVER 80 households have been illegally established at the wildlife corridor that links Tarangire and Manyara national parks, local conservationists in Babati district, Manyara region have confirmed. Speaking to a group of journalists who visited the Burungwe Wildlife Management Area (WMAs) located between Tarangire and Manyara national parks recently, a local conservationist Mr Oleis Olekoin said the corridor is at a risk of disappearing unless immediate action is taken to relocate the invaders. “This is a crucial matter if we are to save the conservation area for the good of our wildlife,” he said urging the government to come up with means that will see immediate relocation of all people who have invaded the wildlife corridor. Mr Olekoin who is also the Secretary of Burungwe WMA, said that the households came into existence and continued to accumulate due to government laxity in taking legal measures against the invaders. "There are over 80 households that have been set up at the middle of the park and along the edge of the corridor, and this is because the concerned authority failed to take legal actions as required," he said, adding that the matter is being fuelled by politicians who tend to defend the invaders. A visit at the corridor learned that the majority of people at the corridor established the households and placed boundaries between the households with some of the lands at the corridor used for farming and grazing. The team leader of Burungwe WMA game rangers, Mr Florian Mofulu said that the households and human activities at the corridor are a big threat when it comes to managing wildlife. According to the wildlife experts, corridors also allow an exchange between populations, which may help prevent the negative effects of inbreeding and reduced genetic diversity that often occur within isolated populations. Commenting over the matter, the local conservationist and Director of Serengeti Preservation Foundation (SPF) Mr Meyasi Mollel expressed the need for the government to relocate the invaders of the corridor to alternative places. “The biggest threat for wildlife protection is encroachment by human settlements and activities in the wildlife corridors and other areas in the national parks and conservation areas,” he said, pointing at political driven decisions as among issues that fuel human settlements at the wildlife corridors. 