AZAM FC Assistant Coach Juma Mwambusi revealed that the work rate of his charges was below par a situation he said contributed them to taste their first defeat of the season. Azam suffered a 2-0 loss to Mtibwa Sugar on Saturday at the Manungu ground in Turiani Morogoro and failed to close the gap with the Mainland Premier League leaders Yanga which currently stand at 10 points with both teams expecting to face each other in their next league fixture. Briefing reporters after the game, Mwambusi conceded that his team was not aggressive enough on the day thereby allowing the hosts to dominate them. “Sometimes it happens in football that players fail to put it all for the team and that is exactly what happened today (Saturday). We never had any threat strike on target throughout the game and in other words, it was not our day since the output was not what we expected,” Mwambusi said. He then lauded Mtibwa Sugar for playing good football which earned them remarkable results at their turf. The victory has placed Mtibwa Sugar on 4th place at the ladder with 26 points from 15 games, 7 points behind third place Simba SC. It was the great moment for the hosts who in the past four years failed to win at their backyard against Azam. On his part, Mtibwa Sugar coach Zuberi Katwila said they were thoroughly prepared for the match hence that was a catalyst for them to win. “We had ample time to relax and train which has paid for us in the end,” he said. Meanwhile, Azam who are the defending champions of Mapinduzi Cup are expected to leave today for Zanzibar to compete in the Isles biggest club level tournament expected to begin tomorrow and climax on January 13th. This was said yesterday by the team’s Communication Officer Jaffar Idd who said they are ready to defend the title for the third consecutive year. “Despite the 2-0 loss in the league, morale among players has been brought back and we are heading to Zanzibar to accomplish our mission,” he said. According to the tournament’s available fixture, group B consist of Azam, Young Africans, KVZ, Malindi and Jamhuri whereas group B is made up of Simba, Chipukizi, Mlandege and KMKM. Azam’s first game will see them battling up with Jamhuri on January 2nd before Yanga open up their title hunt mission against KVZ at Amaan Stadium on January 3rd respectively. The hot clash, however, is set on January 5th when Azam and Yanga will play each other.