TANZANIA is in the process of constructing a large, modern hospital along the country’s Northern Borderline with Kenya, at Longido District. Funds for the proposed hospital have already been channelled to Arusha by the central government and the contractor of the 1.5bn/- project is on the location, clearing the site, with the works expected to commence in January 2019. The Longido District Commissioner, Mr Frank Mwaisumbe, explained here that the government made the decision to build the fully-fledged hospital in his district because the residents of Longido and Namanga border precincts suffered long distance walks to access medical services whenever the situation called for it. “Our people used to travel up to 80 kilometres, going to the nearest town which is Arusha, seeking treatment when they fell ill or needed maternity assistance,” said Mr Mwaisumbe, pointing out that the only public hospital that Longido residents could access was the Regional Hospital of Mount Meru, located in Arusha City. The new Longido Hospital will be equipped with all necessary medical facilities, including X-Ray machines, Ultrasound diagnosis and CT Scan equipment, and once in operation, the medical centre will ease the travel and costs burden among residents of Longido Township and its surrounding villages as well as those living along the Kenya-Tanzania borderline in Namanga. The Longido District Commissioner was speaking at the Arusha Regional Commissioner’s office in the city, where he had summoned the press to list down the achievements realised in his prefecture during the three years of President John Magufuli’s reigning tenure. The Longido District Administrative Secretary, Mr Toba Nguvila stated that the precinct so far has over 150,000 permanent residents, among them 90,000 are pastoralists keeping cattle, goats, sheep and poultry, therefore the area is also working to establish a modern abattoir. The proposed modern slaughterhouse will be capable of churning out 10 tonnes of beef and mutton a day, and these products will be sold both through internal market outlets as well as being exported to make the Northern Zone self-sufficient in meat requirement, plus generating foreign exchange through exports. It is also reported that the international livestock auctioning mart which was established in Longido has already generated over 300m/- since it went into operation some 3 months ago. For his part, the District Council Director, Advocate Juma Mhina said Longido has surveyed over 2000 real estate plots in the ongoing efforts to turn the area into a hospitable residential area and modern township. Longido’s annual revenue collections have escalated from 400m/- to 1.3bn/- and counting, according to the district officials.