THE government is in the process of issuing a circular that will deal with public officials who are using their positions to demand sexual corruption from women. This is part of government’s continued efforts to fight corruption and favouritism at workplace as well as promoting human dignity. Deputy Minister of State in the President’s Office Public Service Management and Good Governance, Dr Marry Mwanjelwa, revealed this yesterday adding that the government will have zero tolerance to those who will be caught. She was speaking at an event organised by Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Women’s Wing UWT specifically to commend President John Magufuli for the job he has done so far since he assumed office in November 2015. “The government is fighting hard to curb sexual corruption and all forms of inhuman acts at all places, because it causes a lot of pain to women and denies them their human rights; I want to assure that days are numbered for those who have this behaviour,” said the Deputy Minister. The government’s announcement on the planned circular has come hardly two months since claims of sexual corruption emerged at higher learning institutions with female students being victims. According to her, the government has got big achievements in the fight against corruption. “Various reports from local research organiaations: Twaweza, Policy Forum and others have proved this and we shall continue with the same spirit,” she assured. At the event, the Deputy Minister reminded women to dress properly so that they can become good example to the community, given the role they have in shaping behaviours of the youth. She was of the view that proper morals should be observed by every member of the community for a better future of the coming generation. The Deputy Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Angelina Mabula , said in the past three years, the government has managed to issue more than 100,000 traditional certificates of occupancy of land that has helped the owners to secure loans worth of more than 1bn/-. The money, she said, has been spent on various economic activities to help individuals improve their earnings and shelters. “The ministry has also played part in facilitating implementation of various strategic projects in the country including Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), Stiegler’s George and the construction of the gas pipeline from Hoima in Uganda to Tanga,” she explained. Again, the ministry has established the Integrated Land Management Information System (ILMIS) to transform land records management into digital map, a move that has helped to reduce land disputes. According to her, “Efforts are taken to solve land disputes which 75 per cent of them are in Kinondoni District of Dar es Salaam; as we are all witnessing that currently there is no business as usual at all.” The Iringa District Commissioner, Mr Richard Kasesela, asked women across the country to explore economic activities from various opportunities that are created by the government on its move to make Tanzania a middle income country by 2025. “There are so many opportunities that are yet to be explored; so it’s my call for all women and mothers out there to make better use of what the government is doing because it is for your own good,” he noted.