THE government has resolved to conduct countrywide stakeholders’ sessions, seeking to chart out strategies that will lead to the promotion and eventual production of alternative bags instead of environmentally unfriendly plastic bags. Opening a stakeholders’ session on Tuesday, the Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Vice-President’s Office (Environments), Joseph Sokoine said consultations with stakeholders were crucial before imposing a total ban on environmentally unfriendly plastic bags. According to Mr Sokoine, Tanzania, which produces over 56,000 tonnes of plastic bags and uses over 2 billion tonnes of them a year, is facing serious environmental and economic threats that call for joint action. “So, we have sought meeting you to find a lasting solution to the problem and launch a vigorous move leading to the promotion of local production of alternative bags to protect our environment,” he said. Initially, plastic bags were to be banned in Mainland Tanzania effective from January last year before the resolution was halted to give more room for the involvement of stakeholders on how best the decision could be implemented. Experts have repeatedly warned of multiple effects of plastic bags with Mr Sokoine sounding an alarm on the possibility of more health hazards to humans as the bags are increasingly used as food packaging materials, especially by food vendors and super markets. A senior officer from the Statistics Department in the Ministry of Industries, Trade and Investments, Ms Mourine Guveti, said efforts had been made to establish alternative bag industries. She said her ministry through the Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO) was working hard to ensure simple technology was introduced to allow massive production of alternative and environmentally friendly bags. “So far, we have at least five medium-sized factories that produce alternative bags, but all based in Dar es Salaam. Efforts are made to establish smallscale factories in upcountry regions as well,” she noted. Ms Guveti said her ministry had been campaigning for the elimination of all toxic plastic materials. For her part, Ms Edith Nsima from Asho Packaging Industry in Arusha said the government should introduce incentives to encourage more local players in the manufacturing of alternative bags. She was of the view that by introducing incentives to local investors, the government would put in place modalities for local producers to manufacture cost-effective materials that would be easily accessible and affordable. Citing statistics released by the United Nations Environmental Programme, Mr Sokoine said by 2050 there would be more plastic bags in the sea than fish, calling for concerted effort to address the problem.