PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday revoked with immediate effect the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology’s directives on the uses of the national flag, anthem and emblem. The ministry wrote to various educational institutions in the country, instructing them on the precautious uses of the national flag, anthem and emblem. The letter to the heads of education colleges, social development colleges, higher learning institutions and associate colleges and all institutions under the education portfolio was written on the Ministry of Home Affairs directive. Dr Magufuli said the CHA.56/193/02/16 referenced letter under the “Proper use of national flag, anthem and emblem,” heading has issued directives that affect the citizens’ patriotism, bringing confusion on the interpretation of the colours and symbols embedded on the national flag. “Since I was in school until today I do understand that the national flag has yellow as one of its colours and not golden colour…and the yellow colour represents all minerals and not gold alone,” argued President Magufuli, adding: “I have decided to rescind the letter and if there are changes, they should be done by observing all the procedures, this is a national, not personal issue.” He ordered that the national flag, emblem and anthem be used as usual, imploring Tanzanians to remain patriotic, love their country and promote it wherever they are as long as they abide by laws and safeguard the national interest. In the letter, the Ministry of Education, heading the alleged directive by the Home Affairs Ministry’s order, accused the government institutions of misusing the national symbols. According to the Ministry of Home, the national anthem had to be played during the national events and events whose status is not known, the respective institution had to seek a permit from the responsible minister and all the verses of the national song ought to be sung. The ministry through the letter also instructed that the colours of the national flag are green, gold, black and blue, describing the use of yellow colour as wrong. The government restrictions on the use of national flag, anthem and emblem have raised public eyebrows, with people questioning the decision rationale in promoting patriotism. Some people argued that the national symbols were critical in promoting patriotism.