POLICE in Kalambo District, Rukwa Region, have arrested a woman from Kalemasha Village in Mbuluma Ward for allegedly burning her seven-year-old son and causing him severe bodily harm. She accused her son of stealing and eating cooked beans prepared for lunch. The boy, who is in Standard One, has been admitted to Matai Health Centre in Matai Town. The health facility operates as a district hospital since there is none so far established to serve as the district health facility. The brutal incidence occurred yesterday, when villagers in collaboration with the Police Desk for Gender and activists against genderbased violence (GBV) were observing 16 days of sexual violence against women and children. Narrating the incident, officer in charge of the Police Desk for Gender in Kalambo District Nira Mgimwa said the suspect was arrested after the police were tipped off by law-abiding citizens. “After we were tipped off, we rushed to the scene of incident at Kalemasha Village and arrested the suspect, while the victim was taken to Matai Health Centre,” the officer said. The officer further revealed that the boy sustained severe wounds on his hands as the mother pressed a burning piece of firewood on his hands. “After interrogating her, the mother admitted to have burnt her son’s hands after discovering what her son had done.” Acting Kalambo District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr Boniface Chapanga, confirmed to have received the wounded boy, who he said had been hospitalised and his condition was improving after responding well to the medicine. A cross-section of Matai residents interviewed by the ‘Daily News’ strongly condemned such brutality, urging law enforcers to intervene whenever such incidents were reported and take legal action against the culprits. The 16 days of sexual violence against women and children celebrations are organised each year by a nongovernmental organisation, Wi LDAF, in collaboration with other nongovernmental organisations fighting against gender-based violence in the country, development stakeholders and several government and private institutions.