THE Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe has directed Young Africans to hold election as per the governing regulations. Mwakyembe said at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the government wants to see the club conduct the election so that all vacant posts get their able occupants. He said the Jangwani Street club must fill all the vacant posts in accordance with directives of the football governing body(TFF). The election is expected to be held on January 13, 2019 and lection process is still going on steadily. Mwakyembe echoed his directives after the climax of a meeting that involved the ministry, National Sports Council (NSC), TFF and officials from Young Africans that discussed several issues pertaining to the election. “The election must be conducted at any cost as the government wants to see Yanga is led by strong leaders who value accountability and keen to serve the club by strictly adhering to club’s constitution,” he said. Speaking on some club’s members to recognise the club’s former President, Yusuf Manji, Mkwakyembe said they don’t accept that and added that TFF erred in accepting his letter, but stressed that cant be a reason to breach regulations and the governing rules. He said one mistake can’t lead to the change of the governing rules. “Yanga’s constitution has clearly said in its 35(5) section of its constitution saying that if the Chairman failed to deliver due to illness, his vice chairman can fill his place and he is also one of 13 members of the executive committee. As per section 28(3), the member will cease to hold the post if he fails to attend four meetings,” he added. He called for solidarity and closer ties between the election committee and Yanga leadership and election supervising members who were recently elected to enable a successful mini election. The Chairman of Yanga election committee Judge (rtd) John Mkwawa called for wisdom and good conduct to command the success of the coming election. Four vacant positions which would be contested for during the day are Chairman, Vice-Chairman and four members to form the team’s Executive Committee. He added that nomination forms for various posts to be filled started to be distributed to the eligible candidates from November 8th to 13th this year. This comes as a response after the National Sports Council (NSC) directed the TFF and the existing Yanga leadership to set a date for the club’s general election to be done. NSC Acting General Secretary Alex Nkeyenge said the only way to resolve uncertainties at Yanga is by letting the club conduct free and fair election. “NSC as the parent of all sports bodies in the country orders Yanga to conduct general election immediately to elect leaders to fill the vacant key posts at the club and enable it to run properly in accordance with their available constitution,” Nkeyenge said. Nkeyenge reminded Yanga members to go and register themselves at different branches of the club scattered across the country for them to have the chance to cast their votes in the forthcoming election.