EDUCATION is widely recognised globally as a strong weapon which plays a crucial role in terms of development of a nation and an individual life, before escalating to the whole community. In other words, it is the most valuable treasure that one can think of, which nobody can steal from one, once one has acquired. In the same context, they say that when you educate a girl child, it is the same as providing education to the entire society, which in turn could lead to instant development of that particular area in shortest period of time possible. However, upon realising that a big number of adolescent girls who are not attending school due to various reasons are invading streets with nothing to do, and in turn endangers their precious lives, a philanthropic movement known as Organisation for Community Development (OCODE) in partnership with Stromme Foundation from Norway have come together to save this group of young girls to make sure they realise their potential and do something meaningful in their lives. These two organisations run a number of life-changing educative programmes such as Sewing, Cooking, Decoration, Saloon, Art and Craft trainings to simply improve living standards of the less privileged Tanzanians especially girls from different communities, where they reside. Equally, they follow them to where they work and they are now enjoying their intended fruits, which can enjoy by exploiting their own resources, where they simply come from. Speaking recently in Dar es Salaam during their third graduation ceremony locally known as Bonga, an initiative which helps to impart life skills to the adolescent girls, OCODE Chief Executive Officer Mr Joseph Jackson, hailed how he was happy to see more girls embracing the opportunity, despite nightmares they went through. “As I have already said, beneficiaries of this project are girls who do not make it to secondary schools or those who drop out of school due to early pregnancies, marriages and many other reasons, but still want to do something positive in their lives regardless of what happened to them previously,” said Mr Jackson. He further said that the girls are of productive age, energetic and capable to do something they want, but lack a place, where they can turn to and get the necessary attention for their own development. “We know that something negative happened to them in the past which consequently denied them an opportunity to proceed with their education, hence OCODE and Stromme Foundation have partnered to rescue them and give them a second chance to excel in life so that they realise their long-term dreams,” the CEO said. According to him, Bonga initiative has so far seen a total of 344 girl students graduating in different disciplines of their interests since last year representing 85 per cent in their initial goal. However, Mr Jackson hinted that despite more girls seizing the rare chance, some of them still fail to finish the race as they drop out on the way due to various reasons. “Some of them live with their parents and when they move to live in a different location, they also stop coming to learn, while others get married during the training and get busy with their marriage issues and hence abandon classes,” observed Mr Jackson. For his part, Director of Ilala Municipality Mr Jumanne Shauri who was the guest of honour during the occasion thanked OCODE for the good gesture; they are doing to the girls adding that other organisations should borrow a leaf from them. He told the graduating students to believe in themselves and always aim higher, while knowing that anything in life is possible. Additionally, Mr Shauri urged the graduating students to form groups and write proposals to his Municipality so that they can be given tenders of sewing school uniforms as well as stand a chance to access loans. Also, speaking at the same occasion, Ilala Municipality Community Development Officer Georgis Assenga challenged the graduating learners to be disciplined with whatever income they would be generating from their works. “You need to spend the money you generate wisely and invest it for further development of your business,” Assenga said. She also advised them (girls) to love one another and work well in their respective groups for them to reach far. “OCODE cannot provide these skills to every girl in need out there, as such, you should also be willing to share the experience you have acquired with those who failed to attend the training,” she said. Assenga then lauded parents and guardians of the girls for allowing them to get the skills, which would make them become useful individuals in their families and the community at large. In her explanation, a beneficiary of the training Venansia Mubezi urged the OCODE to continue doing such commendable work to the girls, because it would assist them a lot in their future. “Unfortunately, I dropped out of school due to lack of school fees hence instead of just moving around without anything useful to do, I decided to join this programme and I am happy that at last, I have completed the training,” Mubezi who majored in decoration said. She then called upon girls who have nothing to do at home to grab the deal, since the entire training is offered free of charge. In the same token, another graduate Selevia Simon said she would use the acquired sewing skills to improve her life and those around her. “I am happy that I know how to sew and I am ready to fight for survival on my own in the street, because what I have obtained during the training period is very important in my life. The most important thing is for the community members to believe in us that we can also do great things for them,” she said happily. Additionally, Ms Simon advised other girls who have nothing in life or feel wasted to enrol with them at OCODE in order for them to be self-reliant and be a catalyst for change as far as development is concerned. All 125 graduates were awarded certificates and start-up equipments to be used in their groups in accordance with the discipline of their specialisation.