MTIBWA Sugar have been knocked out of CAF Confederation Cup after losing 2-1 to Uganda’s KCCA in the first round, return leg at the Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam yesterday. KCCA got the tie done and dusted and progress into the second round of the continental second tier clubs championship on a 5-1 aggregate. KCCA defeated Mtibwa 3-0 in Kampala last Saturday with all three goals coming in the second half. In yesterday’s encounter, the visitors went ahead through Muamir Mutyaba in the first half but Salum Kihimbwa pulled level in the second half. KCCA snatched the winner late in the game through Allan Okello. Mtibwa Sugar needed to produce magic and turn around the score against KCCA. They were required to score four un-replied goals against the Ugandan giants, to progress to the second round, which surely was a difficult task for the Tanzanian team. The encounter kicked off in a slow tempo with both sides especially visitors KCCA displaying an exhibition football, enjoying their 3-0 cushion. KCCA were the first to reach Mtibwa’s goal just three minutes in the game, when Allan Okello nearly gave his side an early lead after he beat goalkeeper, Shabaan Kado, but his shot went well off the target. Three minutes later, KCCA’s Muzamiru Mutyaba was denied a clear chance to score by keeper Kado, who saved his point bank shot. Mtibwa replied with a fierce attack in the 10th minute when Jaffari Kibaya came close after beating Filbert Obenchan, only to see his rocket shot flying inches over the bar. In the 27th minute, Kibaya nearly gave Mtibwa the lead but KCCA keeper, Charles Lukwago was called into action to make a timely nice save. After surviving the scare, KCCA went in front in the 28th minute, when Muzamiru Mutyaba tapped in Allan Okello’s cut-back. In the 39th minute, Mutyaba tried to find Okello in the box but the pass was too heavy and Kado easily collected the ball. Mtibwa ought to have levelled matters four minutes before the break but once again, Lukwago reflexive save kept Kibaya’s attempt out of target as Mike Mutebi’s side went into the break leading 1-0. A minute before the interval, Okello shot straight at goalkeeper after being set up through by Jackson Nnunda. After the break, Mtibwa came out strongly and they threatened in the first three minutes of the half. Then in the 52nd minute, Salum Kihimbwa, who missed several scoring chances in the first half, drew the tie to level with a bullet free header off a Salum Kanoni’s corner kick. Mtibwa Head Coach, Zuberi Katella introduced Haruna Chanongo in the 53rd minute for Ismail Mhesa and Hassan Isihaka replaced defender Dickson Daud, who failed to continue with the game due to injury. Striker, Juma Luizio was called out for Riffat Khamis, changes which slightly helped hosts pressing for a second goal but they continued squandering chances they created. However, KCCA were still in control of the tie and they brought in Gift Ali for Jackson Nunda in the 57th minute. Sserwadda Steven blasted over the bar after being set up by Allan Kyambadde in the 58th minute. KCCA made other changes, introducing Mike Mutyaba and Achai Herbert for Steven Sserwadda and Allan Kyambadde respectively. In the 74th minute Riffat Khamis ought to have put Mtibwa in the lead but twice missed to find contact with the ball inside the six-yard area, following a neat cross in by Chanongo. What a double miss. With two minutes to the final whistle, Okello finished off Mtibwa with a cool finish after receiving a long pass from defender, Lawrence Bukenya, who picked the ball from Kihimbiwa.