THE Mv Nyerere Ferry tragedy on Ukara Island, which occurred in September, this year, calls for fresh emergency management or disaster preparedness – that includes predicting, preventing and mitigating the impact of, responding to and coping with disaster conseq uences effectively. This should start from the grassroots level. Although Tanzania is still a fledgling economy, the way the government, Ukerewe residents, well-wishers and Tanzanians in general dealt with the tragedy in terms of timely response and support was encouraging. Besides this, the media covered well the tragedy so that Tanzanians and the world were kept abreast of all stages of the rescue operation. Yet, there are now over 400 vulnerable children, whose parents and guardians perished in the tragedy. These children still need support to cope with the situation of being left by their parents and guardians and, of course, to be able to get education and proper upbringing. Counsellors from the Tanzania Red Cross Society (TRCS) are camping in Ukerewe District for various social support missions. According to Mwanza Regional Community Development Officer Kizito Wambura, who spoke to this paper on Sunday, although ongoing interventions are progressing well, more is still needed in terms of humanitarian support. SOS, Plan International and Railway Children Africa have shown willingness to offer support. Pact Tanzania has promised to offer support starting early next month. We have decided to recall this tragedy because its effects are still with us and that is why we think it is good to remind each other of the importance of emergency management or disaster preparedness because it is through this that we can be sure of more positive mitigation outcomes. It is true that we can prevent many accidents or disasters if we are wellprepared or at least we can prevent their adverse effects on Tanzanians and the country at large. As we can see, preparedness involves dealing with both short and long-term effects of the disaster or accident. Long-term effects include offering psychological, social and moral support to the victims. To sustain this we need to have training in emergency management or disaster preparedness. This can be done from the grassroots level. We say this because looking at the Mv Ukerewe Ferry tragedy, we find that fishermen were among the first volunteers to offer help. This means that the more people are trained in emergency management or disaster preparedness, the more we can expect positive outcomes in terms of saving more lives or preventing further destruction of infrastructure in cases of floods or other calamities. Thus, grassroots training in emergency management or disaster preparedness is extremely important for it is such training that will impart emergency or disaster preparedness skills to Tanzanians from all walks of life.