DODOMA Alko Vintages Company Limited has become the first Tanzanian wine company to set up its bottling plant in the United Kingdom (UK) in the wake of acquiring registration. The company’s proprietor, Mr Archard Kato, told the ‘Daily News’ in a recent interview that the bottling plant, which is located in Covent Garden, London, would enable Tanzanian wines to penetrate the European market. “The bottling plant will produce and supply our wine products to the UK and other European nations,” said the company’s proprietor, who doubles as company’s managing director. The Tanzanian wine industry does not have much international recognition, but it is the second largest producer of wine in sub-Saharan Africa after South Africa with Dodoma as the country’s major grape growing region. Mr Kato pointed out further that his company had embarked on a special programme to support smallholder grape farmers in Dodoma to uplift wine production. “Dodoma is still the potential grape producer, but farmers have exploited a small area of this opportunity,” said the managing director, who is also the company’s technical director. Mr Kato said the special programme had three components namely agricultural input support, on-farm training and micro-vinification. “The latter component facilitates smallholder grape farmers to make wine. Under the on-farm component, we facilitate experts on grape farming to visit farmers, while on farm to educate them to improve grape production,” he noted. He explained that his company supported smallholder farmers to get wine making supplies to be able to carry out small-scale wine production and that the company purchased wine from smallholder farmers. Through the agricultural input support component, he said, “His company provides smallholder grape farmers with agricultural input support to improve production. Smallholder grape farmers receive fertilisers and materials used for production from our company to increase productivity.” Mr Kato pointed out further that the special programme had enhanced cooperation between farmers and his company, urging other smallholder grape farmers to form groups that would help them benefit from the special programme.