THE Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwakyembe said preparations for the 2019 Africa Youth Championship (AYC) are progressing well according to plans. Among the major works underway, include the renovation of the National Stadium, Uhuru Stadium and Azam Complex, the three major venues picked for the finals. Tanzania will host the Under-17 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) for the first time and the country’s envoys in the championship Serengeti Boys, are already on the ground preparing for the big event. Seven countries will descend in the country to contest in the youth level championship which was previously hosted in Gabon last year while draws are expected to be conducted this month in Dar es Salaam. Speaking through a radio interview, Mwakyembe said the Infrastructure Committee, whose chairman is the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner Paul Makonda, is leaving no stone unturned as far as preparations are concerned. “If you may recall, a team of experts from CAF and FIFA came in the country recently to inspect three venues; the National Stadium, Uhuru Stadium and Azam Complex which would be used to stage the finals. They gave us directives on the things we ought to accomplish before the start of the championship,” Mwakyembe said. He added: “Very soon, we are going to start renovation works at the National Stadium which will involve covering the upper section of VIP, setting a good place to be used by members of the media, renovating dressing rooms and adjusting the electronic score board to make it look clearer as requested by CAF officials.” He further hinted that after putting the National Stadium fit, they would shift to Uhuru Stadium where they expect to completely remove the existing artificial turf and replace it with the new one. “Uhuru Stadium requires major renovations and the initial budget we proposed has now gone up basing on the nature of works to be carried out there but, we have no other option other than transforming the venue to the required international standards,” he said.