THE country’s envoys in the CAF Champions League, Simba were due to jet off this morning to Zambia, ahead of the first round two legged clash with Zambia champions Nkana FC slated for Saturday at Nkana Stadium in Kitwe. Simba Head of Information and Communications, Haji Manara said in a statement yesterday that the Mainland champions were set to jet off onboard Ethiopian Airline via Addis Ababa, before heading to Ndola and later connecting to Kitwe. The Msimbazi Reds and the hosts Nkana alias ‘Kalapa Boys’ will clash in the first round, first leg tie at Nkana Stadium before the return leg a week later at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Manara added that the contingent to Zambia will comprise 20 players and six technical bench staff under Head Coach Belgian Patrick Aussems and three club’s officials. He said the contingent will be headed by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Executive Committee member, Francis Ndulane. The outspoken Manara said the squad was in perfect frame of mind ahead of the crucial clash but he could not reveal the name of players making the trip to Kitwe. Simba, who eliminated Eswatini’s giants Mbabane Swallows by 8-1 goals on aggregate following 4-1 victory in the first leg held in Dar es Salaam and later 4-0 victory away in Mbabane were undergoing an intensive training ahead of the Saturday clash. Manara also said that the club’s supporters who wish to travel to Kitwe to rally behind the team will also leave the country early tomorrow morning by road to Kitwe. He said the supporters will leave Dar es Salaam by bus via Tunduma border to Kitwe and they are expected to reach their destination by Friday evening. While Simba will be away in Kitwe, Mainland envoys in CAF Confederation Cup, Mtibwa Sugar, will travel to Kampala, Uganda, to face Kampala City Council Authority (KCCA) in the first round, first leg at Lugogo grounds on the same day. Mtibwa Sugar bundled out Seychelles’ Northern Dynamos by 5-0 goals on aggregate and Head Coach, Zuberi Katwila and former Taifa Stars Head Coach, Salum Mayunga, who is currently Mtibwa’s Technical Director have joined forces to plot the KCCA downfall. Meanwhile, Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe has expressed his faith in both teams that they could maneuver past their next hurdles in the continental tournaments. Minister Mwakyembe said he is hopeful that Simba and Mtibwa Sugar will wage successful war in their coming assignments, because they have what it takes to do the best in football. Mwakyembe said this yesterday in Dar es Salaam when he visited the Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN), the government owned media and the publishers of Daily News, Sunday News, HabariLeo, HabariLeo Jumapili, SpotiLeo and Daily News Online edition. Mwakyembe said the only weapon the two teams need to register victory is to step up their performance than they did in their respective preliminary rounds. “Both teams should bear in mind that they are representing 55 million Tanzanians and that should be a motivational factor for them to win,” he said. He urged all football lovers to continue supporting the two teams and that they should pray that the two sides post positive results away.