CATHOLIC and Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT) bishops on different occasions on Christmas Eve mass called for peace as they urged the youth to use their skills to foster peace and security in the country. Archbishop Beatus Kinyaiya of the Archdiocese of Dodoma said it was high time the peace enjoyed in the country was maintained, challenging the youth to play a leading role in the maintenance of a peaceful atmosphere. Delivering his homily at St Paul of the Cross Parish he stressed the need to maintain peace starting at family level from where it permeated the entire fabric of society. He was critical of especially the educated youth, who he said in most cases they had been sources of the breach of the peace by involving themselves in unlawful acts, including online fraud. “You are being sent to school to be educated. Do not use the knowledge acquired to create fear in society. You are being sent to University of Dodoma (Udom) for ICT training, but after studies you choose to con people online. This is not good,” said Archbishop Kinyaiya. He called for the youth, especially motorcyclists, to abide by laws of the land with special attention. Celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ should signify a spiritual renewal through which forgiveness and peace should be given priority. Archbishop Kinyaiya called upon Tanzanians as they were approaching 2019 to strive for peace from family to national level. “When the family is at peace and when we only worship the Almighty God and when we live as brothers and sisters and as a nation, then, none should be given a room to disrupt peace,” he advised. Archbishop Kinyaiya also stressed the need to protect the environment and Dodoma’s green initiative should be maintained. For his part, ELCT Bishop Amon Kinyunyu cautioned Tanzanians not to temper with the existing peace, instead they should do all they could to maintain it. He said peace was key to development projects, spiritual and social services and so there was a need to ensure it prevailed. He was delivering a homily at Dodoma Urban Lutheran Church. He said even government and political leaders were free to work due to the existing peace. He thus said Tanzanians should seek God’s guidance to ensure the peace existed. Bishop Kinyunyu said President John Magufuli did his best to maintain the country’s peace, thus was a need for members of the public to do the same for nation’s prosperity. “It is our responsibility as a nation to ensure that together we maintain our country’s peace and tranquillity, which other countries are eyeing for such a status and condition. Let us not make a mistake,” he cautioned