CHAMA Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Secretary General, Dr Bashiru Ally has invited former cabinet member Bernard Membe (pictured) to clarify some rumours about his alleged transgression. Dr Bashiru is looking forward to have comprehensive talks with the former Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Minister over reports that the ex-minister has started racing for the presidential seat in the 2020 general elections. The ruling party’s chief executive officer issued the invitation in Geita over the weekend while speaking to CCM members during his working tour of the region. Mr Membe was one of the 42 CCM presidential aspirants who sought the party approval as the party’s flag bearer in the 2015 general election. He featured in the top five candidates before he was voted out. Dr Bashiru, in his statement, said it was important for the former minister to show up and clear the air about his purported underground meetings aimed at succeeding President John Magufuli as well as frustrating implementation of the government’s development agenda. “So, I’m inviting him to tell me whether these stories about him are true or false…they are not befitting his status and he should not opt to remain quiet, as the secretary of all party meetings, let me hear his clarification,” he said. Dr Bashiru said with the exception of Membe he has already met all the presidential aspirants who picked the nomination forms seeking nomination for the party’s flag bearer in the 2015 elections. If Mr Membe doesn’t show up, according to Dr Bashiru, then the party will start believing the rumours, inviting appropriate party actions. However, Dr Ally could not dwell on the actions to be taken. “He (Membe) remains our member and as the retired cabinet minister of important portfolio—Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation—how can he remain quiet amid all these noises about him,” queried the Secretary General. Mr Membe was Mtama constituency Member of Parliament for 15 years between 2000 and 2015, with eight of them—2008 to 2015—serving as Foreign Affairs Minister. Efforts to reach Mr Membe for reaction failed yesterday.