…ATCL becomes the first airline on the African continent to operate the Airbus A220-300 PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday warned against emerging business sabotage of the State-owned airline, mainly in ticketing.The President also sounded tough over some government officials whose institutions had paid flight fares for them to fly with the ATCL’s planes but didn’t travel, thereby occasioning loss. He revealed that nearly 100 top civil servants did not travel despite their offices having paid for their flights. “I need the names of these government executives so that the money is deducted from their salaries and is returned to the government,” he ordered shortly before receiving the Airbus 220-300 at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA). Meanwhile, he warned against acts that sabotage the ATCL’s business, particularly in selling tickets. Dr Magufuli said he had information over the price of tickets at ATCL offices being inflated while the same were lower at flight agency outlets. “How come the price becomes higher at the company’s offices than the ones at the agents?,” Dr Magufuli wondered. There is also a tendency whereby a customer may be told that a plane is fully booked while some seats were vacant, he remarked. “The airline business is competitive, you should be creative and efficient,” he told the ATCL management and the board of directors. He said the two entities must work hard to ensure that the company prospered and rose to new heights and make the company more commercially viable. A scene of fanfare and jovial mood decorated the JNIA yesterday as thousands of Tanzanians thronged the venue to welcome the first Airbus A220-300 aircraft. The gathering was eager to witness the landing of the new plane as most of the time they raised their heads, looking at the sky to get a first view when it descended. The new plane landed at the JNIA at around 4:30pm and was greeted by cheers from the enthusiastic crowd. This is the fifth of seven planes that the government has purchased in an endeavour to revive the Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL). President Magufuli led Tanzanians in welcoming the aircraft which will be handed over to the ATCL for business operations. The flag carrier of Tanzania becomes the first African operator of this aircraft type and the fifth airline globally with an A220 family airplane (formerly known as the Bombardier CSeries). With the addition of the A220 in the fleet Tanzania is confident it will expand its footprint in the growing African markets and beyond, as the country unlocks additional routes and regain its position as a key player in the African air transport market. The A220 will allow the ATCL to further develop its domestic and regional market as well as open new routes to India and the Middle East. Additionally, the airline has a second Airbus A220 aircraft on order.