TANZANIA Institute of Accountancy (TIA) has requested the government to use the institution in consulting services and conducting studies to improve revenue collection system in the country. The request issued by the TIA Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Dr Joseph Kihanda over the weekend during the 16th graduation at the institute when 4,022 students for Dar es Salaam and Mtwara Campuses graduated. He said the institute could cooperate with the Ministry of F inance and Planning and the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) in setting various tactics to enable better systems for revenue collections. According to him, TIA through its advices and various conducted researches enabled to identify and evaluate as well as to discover new sources of revenue in the Tunduma Town Council in the Songwe Region. “Our institutions have also enabled the identification, valuation and preparation of asset register in the Mbeya City Council accordingly to the asset management guideline 2012 and International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS),” he said. The guest of honour in the event was the Permanent Secretary for the Ministry of F inance and Planning, Mr Doto James who represented the Minister of the Ministry, Dr Philip Mpango. Mr James, through his speech, challenged TIA to improve the curriculums according to the changes of technology and meet international standards by producing competent experts. He advised them to use their knowledge to educate the societies on the importance paying tax. On his part the Chairman for the Board of Consultants in the Ministry of F inance and Planning, Advocate Said Chiguma has further challenged TIA to improve curriculums that would enable graduates to become entrepreneurs. He said the institutions is facing separate challenges including shortage of professional infrastructures compared to the number of students and small number of lecturers compared to number of students. About 2,101 females and 1,921 male students have graduated in the courses of Basic Technician Certificates, Diploma, Bachelor Degree and Postgraduate Diploma. According to TIA CEO, Dr Kihanda, the institutions have increased number of admission for students by 16 per cent from 6,077 in 2017/2018 to 7,06 6 in 2018/2019.