Tanzanian Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates, Mr Mbarouk Nassor Mbarouk received the award on behalf of the government from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs,His Highness Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan. According to a media statement issued yesterday in Dar es Salaam by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, the award comes following Dar’s success at controlling cassava creek disease and cassava mosaic disease through the Mikocheni Agricultural Research Institute. The statement noted that the country managed to contain such diseases attacking cassava through an application of modern equipment scientifically known as Cassava DNA Sequencer. By using this contemporary equipment (Cassava DNA Sequencer) the experts are able to discover a range of diseases attacking cassava which are caused by bacteria, virus and pathogens within two days. Earlier technology which was also expensive could take experts a couple of months to detect such problems. Cassava is a root vegetable widely consumed in developing countries. It provides some important nutrients and resistant starch, which may have health benefits. It is estimated that about 800 million people in the world depend on the crop. MAKULU Ward residents in Dodoma Urban District wash their clothes in the stream following the recent rains that pounded the region recently. (Photo by Mohamed Mambo) From SYLIVESTER DOMASA in Dodoma THE Government has tasked the Controller and Auditor- General (CAG) and the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to investigate negligence in overseeing a billion shilling water project in Buchosa. Water and Irrigation Minister Eng Isack Kamwelwe issued the directives here yesterday when launching the 9th Water Utilities Performance Review Report for the FY 2016/17 targeting Regional and National Project Water Utilities. “I have learnt there were negligences in implementing this project. CAG and PCCB you have work to do,” the Minister said at the meeting where he also awarded Moshi and Kahama Water Supply Authorities for best water and sewerage supply as well as best non revenue water management and most improved water utility respectively. According to the Minister authorities in Buchosa okayed a deceptive designing, yet fixing Class B of water distribution pipes on the pressured water. Class B pipes are chiefly designed for non-pressurised liquid including sewage. It was not immediately revealed the exact amount spent implementing the ‘fake’ water project, but the Minister said it took six years from 2012 for the project to be completed. The concerned Minister expressed discontent over nonrevenue water, calling experts to review existing technologies to address the menace. Presenting the report prepared by the Energy and Water Utility Regulatory Authority (Ewura), the Authority’s Chairman Prof Jamidu Katima said 106 million litres or 38.4 per cent of the volume of water produced is lost to technical or commercial hitches. “The amount of water lost if retained can help address infrastructure crisis facing water utilities in the country,” he said. At least 301 million cubic litres of Water is produced every day making a deficit of at least 38.3 per cent of the total required water of 488 million cubic litres. The chairman said authorities also need to work on improving their sewage treatments plants which at national level is projected to be at 11 per cent. Prof Katima revealed that Lindi, Mpanda, Bariadi and Geita water authorities are the worst performing utilities for two consecutive years. Mr Faustine Baa, Chairman of the Moshi Water Supply Authority explained that a collective approach between the board and the management had helped the utility to emerge victorious for two consecutive years. Minister