Finance and Planning Deputy Minister, Dr Ashantu Kijaji told the National Assembly here yesterday that the government is restructuring and stabilising the bank’s top management before releasing further funds. “This is a strategic plan as we want the management to be able to address the challenge and meet the government and farmers’ expectations,” stated the Deputy Minister as she was responding to a supplementary question raised by Bunda-Urban MP (Chadema), Ms Ester Bulaya. The lawmaker was concerned that even after the government asserted to inject 8bn/- every financial year to boost the crucial bank, “no money has been channelled so far.” “This has pushed the financial institution to struggle to meet farmers’ demands,” the MP said. “While the Banks capital was projected to be 800bn/- with support from the government, TADB capital stood at only 60bn/-,” she claimed. The Deputy Minister told parliamentarians that shortly after the plan is in place, the government will immediately start releasing the monies. He said plans are also getting underway for the bank to open branches in six different zones in the country to easy farmers’ access to the institution services. Dr Kijaji made it clear that it is the government’s intention to ensure that the bank helps small and medium scale farmers increase productivity. Earlier while posing her main question, Tunduru North MP (CCM), Engineer Ramo Makani asked the government to reveal the main crops that contributed to the GDP in the past five years. Government figures show that agriculture, fishing and forestry contributed 31.1 per cent to the GDP in 2012, followed by 25.0 per cent in 2013 and 24.5 per cent in 2014. It also account for 23.5 per cent in 2015 and 26.4 per cent in 2016. Tobacco, cashew nuts, coffee, cotton and tea exports earned the country 956.8 million US dollars in 2012, 868.9 million US dollars in 2013 and 808.8 million US dollars in 2014. In 2014 the crops contributed 793.4 million US dollars and after government reviews in 2015 the crops earned 895.5 million US dollars. While there has been minimal contribution of the sector than expected resulting to poor yields, the government said it was working around the clock to improve access to agro inputs potentially needed in boosting productivity. We need more production of agro produces to ensure adequate availability of raw materials for our industries, the Deputy Minister emphasised.