They argue that a lot of cheap spirit in the market also leads to loss of revenue to the government, calling on those in authority to do all it takes to tame rogue traders who produce the hard drinks. Their observation comes in almost a week after a cross section of Members of Parliament made similar call, arguing that some of the hard drinks that are increasingly getting into the market are produced by factories that do not pay taxes. Speaking with journalists here yesterday, the Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) regional chairperson, Deus Nyabiri said the government ought to act immediately and curb production of illicit liquor in the country. “It is not right for these dubious traders to continue operating in the market as they make unfair competition for genuine traders who support the government’s industrial drive” he said. He said investors need to understand the government plan on industrialisation and work in a way that support what the government is campaigning for rather than going against it. Similar sentiments were echoed by one, Emmanuel Chonjo, a trader in Dodoma who said illicit liquor is common in the market, but noted that it seems some officials from the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) are behind the dirty dealings. “It is high time the government stops the illegal trade by closing industries involved and if possible investigate involvement of TRA in the scam” he said, adding that usage of fake excise duty stickers indicate there is something wrong within the revenue authority departments. He noted that illicit liquor manufacturers pose a substantial health threat to consumers, thus their licences should be revoked while economic consequences for honest manufacturers and government loss are equally considerable. He also argued that the illicit manufacturers and tax officials are not bothered to control unaccounted spirits in the market. “We humbly request the government not to be quiet and take action on the wrong doers” he noted. Minister for Industries, Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage said the government was aware of the problem and was working on it. He also called on fellow lawmakers to help in revealing such factories. “They sell in plastic bottles and much below the required quantity without the rightful stickers,” he said, adding that they are just like any other criminals who should be arrested. He said protection of industries should be done by all people and not the government alone. A random survey by this paper has revealed that there are over 20 brands of illicit liquor in the market, selling at different prices despite having the same being packed in the same quantity. They are found in different regions, mostly from Dar es salaam, Mwanza, Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Shinyanga and Geita, several of them having different TRA stickers though they are of the same quantity