Indeed, the Hadzabe have nothing; no animals, no land, just the clothes on their backs. And, crucially, the skills and resourcefulness to produce everything they need from their environment. There are now less than 400 Hadzabe left. The Hadzabe live in groups of about 15 people and speak a unique language of clicks that is very different from other click languages elsewhere in Africa. The tribe is believed to have been living in this remote area for at least 10,000 years. But their ancestral range has been shrinking as their land is swallowed up by farmers, government-designated conservation areas and private game reserves. Indigenous rights organisations are challenging the government to provide a hunting area for the Hadzabe. Most groups are highly secretive and flee the approach of strangers because they fear it means people are trying to capture them and move them on. This has happened so often in the past. More than half of Hadzabe children die before the age of five, usually from malaria, but also from other treatable diseases. Some historians consider them to be the last hunter gatherer society left in Africa, their lifestyle unchanged for millennia. However, some anthropological records relate the Hadzabe to the San Bushmen of the Kalahari Desert in Namibia. The Hadzabe, an indigenous tribal setting in Manyara Region live in a hot, dry area around Lake Eyasi. They are also known as the Tindiga. The Hadzabe possess a thrilling ‘click’ language and uncanny hunting skills. They use bows and arrows in hunting. They also gather wild fruits, tubers, roots and leaves for food. Some anthropologists report that there are about 1,500 true Hadzabe families leading a traditional nomadic life feasting on the meat of baboons and other small game. Mr James Woodburn, the Cambridge anthropologist who published the definitive work on the Hadzabe more than 30 years ago, discovered that the men hunt as a group only in exceptional circumstances. In search of baboon meat, men from different camps join forces only to hunt the larger, fierce primates. The Hadzabe are opportunist hunters. Operating solo, they eat most animals, except reptiles, and they are lovers of honey. They brave huge swarms of bees to steal combs from high up in baobab trees. While the Hadzabe like to live alone, they periodically come across other different people in the bush. They trade tobacco in return for animal skins. The Hadzabe live in four traditional areas. They are found in the western part of the southern end of Lake Eyasi; between Lake Eyasi and the Yaeda Valley swamp; east of the Yaeda Valley in Mbulu Highlands and north of the valley near Mang’ola town. Some tour companies have been criticized for offering tourist trips to visit the few Hadzabe, who have moved into settlements after giving up their hunting ways to live off holidaymakers’ dollars. The Hadzabe are a musical people, enjoying song and dance as a core part of their lives. They are typically shy, but welcoming of visitors. The ethic of sharing is deeply ingrained in the Hadzabe culture, ownership being largely a foreign concept. After night-long discussions among Hadzabe men a predawn departure for hunting often follows. The women remain in the ‘camp’ preparing freshly collected ‘berries’ and taking care of young children. Older children are normally as skilled in hunting as their elder brothers. In these southern arid areas of the Great Rift Valley there are also other tribes that live near the Hadzabe but with different culture. These include the Iraqw (Mbulu) who are pastoralists. Other livestock loving people in the area are the Maasai and a few other Bantu groups. There are no known tribal conflicts said to have occurred in recorded written history between the tribes. Unfortunately there are many orphaned children in the Hadzabe tribe–a result of poverty among adults in the tribe. Modern culture is encroaching rapidly on the lives of the Hadzabe through the introduction of ‘cultural experiences’ to the tour itineraries. There is also the need for the Hadzabe to speak Kiswahili in order to communicate with local communities. The Hadzabe live on land that has been gazetted by the government as a wildlife sanctuary–a national park. As this land is protected, the Hadzabe are gradually being pushed off--reducing their food supply in the process. Tour companies disrupt the traditional life of the Hadzabe by bringing tourists to see the culture of hunting baboons with bows and arrows and smoking tobacco around an open fire. While this is an amazingly educational experience for the tourists, it amounts to “trespass” for the Hadzabe. It is not possible for any tribal setting to maintain its ancient culture when ‘intrusion’ is commonplace. A man will not behave the same way with an outsider as he does with his brother. The Hadzabe tribe now uses Kiswahili in order to survive. But, Kiswahili could eventually become popular and thus sideline the Hadzabe’s own language. With the introduction of another language into a society, the original language commonly loses its strength in terms of accent, tone and volume. And this is possible for Hadzabe language. Recent studies by Oxfarm say the Hadzabe are virtually under threat of extinction as their habitats have been converted into farms and conservation areas. Researchers blame the situation to government policies that favour conservation of huge chunks of land for wildlife hunting at the expense of indigenous people. They estimate a population of about 3,000 people scattered in woodland, semi-arid areas of Babati, Meatu, Iramba, Mbulu and Karatu districts. The Hadzabe numbered 1,000 in 1988. Most of them live in the bush and in caves. “We hear bad things about the modern world. The people there are confused. They want more and more. But that’s not happiness. We, the Hadzabe believe that the life we have is enough for us,” says Naftal Omi. “We are always happy as long as we have meat and honey,” Omi, told a party of visiting tourists recently. While developed societies thrive on order and regimentation, looseness remains critical to survival for the Hadzabe. Efforts by the government and church organizations to resettle the Hadzabe in permanent villages and take their children to school failed since the 1960s. The government attempted to resettle the Hadzabe in the 1960s and again in the 19‘70s. There was a modicum of success in the crusade in the 1970s but after government food hand-outs ceased, the Hadzabe moved back to the bush. Some have been imprisoned for hunting wildlife on land that they consider ancestral, but which is now protected by the government as wildlife sanctuary. Furthermore, as farmers and hunters encroach upon their traditional lands, life has become increasingly difficult for the community. The Hadzabe have begun surrendering their land and their life-style to pressure from more developed societies. Barbaig pastoralists herd their cattle on the fringes of Hadzabeland. The Wasukuma, Iraqw, Nyiramba, Wachagga, and many more tribes people have brought their hoes and their animals to the land of the Hadzabe. Having no history of aggression, the Hadzabe have simply retreated into the forest. The newcomers on Hadzabeland have caused mayhem for the locals. The remaining warm-blooded ingredients of a good Hadzabe lunch–especially the baboons--have fled to the dry, thorny forests below the Rift Valley escarpment and in the Yaeda Valley. The Hadzabe have traditionally foraged outside these areas, in the Yaeda Valley, on the slopes of Mount Oldeani north of Mang’ola, and up onto the Serengeti Plains. Such foraging is done for hunting, berry collecting, and for honey. Although hunting is illegal in the Serengeti, the Tanzanian authorities recognize that the Hadzabe are a special case and do not enforce the regulations with them, just as the Hadzabe are the only people in Tanzania who do not pay any taxes. Hadzabe men usually forage individually, and during the course of day usually feed themselves while foraging, and also bring home some honey, fruit, or wild game when available. Women forage in larger parties, and usually bring home berries, baobab fruit, and tubers, depending on availability. Men and women also forage co-operatively for honey and fruit and at least one adult male will usually accompany a group of foraging women. During the wet season, the diet is composed mostly of honey, some fruit, tubers and occasional meat. The contribution of meat to the diet increases in the dry season, when game becomes concentrated around sources of water. During this time, men often hunt in pairs and spend entire nights lying in wait by waterholes hoping to shoot animals that approach for a night-time drink. They shoot the animals with bows and arrows treated with poison. The poison is made of the branches of the shrub Adenium coetaneum. Traditionally, the Hadzabe do not use hunting dogs. This custom, however, has been borrowed recently from other tribes. Most men do not use dogs when foraging