Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa (pictured) said here yesterday that all government officials in the government payroll are obliged to make evaluation of their role in implementing the manifesto, just halfway before the next general elections in 2020. “President John Magufuli will be coming back to seek re-election in 2020 but before that, every civil servant will have to account for what you did to implement the current document...we are this year conducting serious evaluation ahead of another manifesto in the forthcoming term,” he revealed. In helping the civil servants prepare the guidelines, the Premier directed all leaders in public offices to obtain a copy of the election manifesto, read it thoroughly and underline areas of attention as time runs out. He cautioned all government officers with no clear explanations on their failure to deliver as per the manifesto, saying they will soon be shown the exit door. Mr Majaliwa said the nationwide staff verification sought to remain with only capable and professional workforce to serve wananchi to their highest level of expectations. He maintained that every public servant will finally account for the salaries they receive, monthly. The Premier said this time the government has come out with a different leadership style of documenting every complaint from members of the public and taking action, accordingly. He said instead of ignoring messages on placards waived by wananchi during leaders’ tours, every message will be recorded and each responsible government officer tasked to give answers. Mr Majaliwa was disappointed by the performance and accountability of some government officers in the local government after realising that over 350m/- brought to Ukerewe District Council had disappeared. He tasked the District Executive Director (DED) Frank Bahati to explain about the money’s whereabouts though no convincing explanation was provided. He directed the DED and his accountant, Peter Mollel to prepare a detailed report on the missing money by tomorrow, short of which strict action will be taken against them. “There is a problem here and I am told there are serious quarrels between DED and Chairman of the District Council...and the reason is these public funds. We are not going to tolerate this situation anymore,” he said.