While Iran has called for collective collaboration to confront this threatening phenomenon, Tanzania has appealed to Iran help in combating the menace in the Middle East, plus helping other countries, including those developing ones in Africa. Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Dr Augustine Mahiga made the call recently, saying that Iran could play a constructive role in combating international terrorism which is now threatening international peace. Dr Mahiga made call over the weekend when officiating at celebrations to mark the 39th anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and the National Day of the Islamic Republic of Iran. He said international terrorism was currently under pressure in the Middle East and was looking for openings in new places such as North Africa, West and even East Africa. Dr Mahiga also pointed out that drug and human trafficking were other threats to international peace globally. “This is an area where the dignity of human beings can be undermined and the strength of the nation can be subsided,” he said. Iran’s Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Mousa Farhang, said terrorism was one of the major problems in the region today and had led the Middle East Region to enter a high-risk segment over the past years. “Although the ISIL (Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant) is declining as the most important ace of violent terrorism over the past years, “terrorism’ in the form of extremist groups remains a dilemma today for the international community whose scope has not been limited to a region but also endangers Europe, USA and even Africa,” he noted, adding that the menace requires collective collaboration to confront the threatening phenomenon. Meanwhile, Tanzania is set to host the fifth Joint Permanent Commission meeting between Iran and Tanzania in the few weeks to come. According to Dr Mahiga, the meeting, would, among other things, hold discussions on meaningful cooperation in development between the two countries. The meeting will focus on exchanging information about terrorism, human and drug trafficking issues. “We had a discussion with Iran and are working together to see that we fight against international terrorism, drug trafficking, human trafficking and other related threats that are new and threatening international peace,” he noted