Information availed to media has shown that for the past five years police in Monduli District have not recorded any incident regarding the widely condemned criminal offence. Monduli District Police Gender Desk Office has now raised its voice, calling upon people to volunteer information on individuals subjecting girls to the outdated culture. Speaking on an International Day of Zero Tolerance on FGM that was organised by the World Vision Tanzania (WVT) at Nanja Primary School early this week, Monduli District Gender Desk Officer, Ms Regina Wilbald said records available did not reflect the reality on ground. According to Ms Wilbald, girls were circumcised upon birth, proving it difficult for people from ‘outside’ the respective households to witness and testify. She called upon parents, guardians and children to be on guard, as the Police Force was going to employ new means to fish out the criminals. “Parents have to be proactive in this matter because for the past five years now we have not recorded any incident nor have we arrested anybody in connection with such a crime,” Ms Wilbad said. She said individuals engaging in such malpractices have changed their tactics by turning to newborns. “I warn parents against condoning FGM because we are now sure that we are going to get you,” Ms Wilbad told the gathering, while asking schoolgirls to volunteer information to teachers. Ms Wilbad assured all individuals who volunteered information on FGM of protection, insisting that she would now start visiting communities alongside NGO officials for sensitization. When school girls were asked if they were subjected to FGM none of them acknowledged but when asked if they were ready to undergo inspection they all refused, highlighting the gravity of the matter. WVT Coordinator for Kisongo and Makuyuni Project, Mr Denis Kweka, said that the humanitarian organisation has raised awareness among children and adults alike and a substantial number of traditional circumcisers (cutter or exciseuse) to down their tools and would, in due course, be engaged in lawful economic activities. He said the WVT team was in preparation to consult Maasai elders – the Laigwanans- so that through their influence they could win a large section of the public in the war against FGM. “We, together with the government and the general public should join hands in this fight and we are sure we will win the war against FGM before or by 2020,” Mr Kweka said. The coordinator noted that WVT was out to safeguard child welfare.