The reviewed Road Traffic Code takes in a number of stiff penalties that are tailored to whip drivers into seeing sense, and hence, curb accidents. Yes, this is the best way to go. Road accidents are too rampant now. The improved traffic rules and regulations will conform with international standards that have been put forward by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and Road Safety experts. The improved law will repeal the outdated Road Traffic Act of 1973. So, it is the spate of accidents that has prompted the state to consider reviewing the Road Traffic Act in a quest to make it stricter with heavier penalties on road users who flout traffic rules. Certainly, it is the much heavier penalties that will get unruly drivers to toe the line. Indeed, road carnage remains a challenging scenario. National leaders have, umpteen times, exhorted drivers to exercise optimum caution when handling motor vehicles. The leaders have often spoken bitterly about the chain of grim accidents. Most of the accidents have stemmed from the recklessness of drivers who handle motor vehicles without much regard to safety. Some of the worst accidents occur on the best roads. It is, consequently, imperative to point out here that some drivers, especially those who have never had driving lessons, do not respect the Highway Code. The Highway Code is the set of rules and pieces of advice on how to use roads. These are based on road traffic law and good driving practice. Unfortunately, too many drivers do not even know what is entailed in the code. So, some drive at frightening speeds, even on the worst roads. Invariably, too many drivers are in undue hurry. Many of them hardly know what the roadside traffic signs require. And there are those who can hardly read or write. Some drive under the influence of alcohol or have poor sight. In fact, some drivers behave like maniacs when handling motor vehicles. It has also come to light that some of the buses or other motor vehicles are mechanically faulty with inefficient braking systems. Boda boda riders, especially those who serve passengers on Dar es Salaam roads, are the most notorious for flouting the Highway Code. These villains often ride at break-neck speed, refuse to stop at red lights and often commit punishable misdemeanors even in the presence of a team of traffic officers. Most such offences are readily seen during the rush hours. It is a pity to state here that road accidents are now a canker that appears to defy State intervention. Indeed, right-thinking Tanzanians are downright tired and incensed by the spate of road carnage. It is high time the rot must be stemmed.