As well, Zanzibar envoys of JKU and Zimamoto will also be engaged in a similar match this weekend against opponents from Zambia and Ethiopia. Premier League defending champions, Yanga will be facing Saint Luis Suns from Seychelles in the CAF Champions League while Simba who are pitted against Gendamarie FC of Djibouti are our envoys in CAF Confederation Cup. Also involved in the tough continental duels are Isles giants, JKU who will host Zambian giants Zesco at Amaan Stadium and Zimamoto who are testing Ethiopian envoys Wolaitta Dicha at the same venue this weekend. Of all four, Zambia’s Zesco look the toughest side while Zimamoto’s Ethiopian opponents’ Wolaitta Dicha are little known. The four envoys will be engaged in actions that will give the world a true picture of Tanzanian football, hence all four need to work hard to give Tanzanian football a good image. For the Mainland envoys, they should not judge their opponents by the status of their countries through their inferior positions in the Fifa World rankings due to the fact that St Luis Suns or Gendarmerie FC as clubs can employ good players from countries whose soccer standard is developed. A good example are St Luis Suns who are well equipped with a number of imports like Nigerian striker Kazeem Adaeyeri, Malagasy duo, midfielder Tahiry and goalkeeper Michel, who team coach Fremont singled out for special praise. It’s also worth to note that even Zambia’s Zesco have a number of imports in their squad, coming from Central and West Africa who team well with local Zambian players. JKU should be very well aware that they are going to face players like Ayo Oluwafemi, a Nigerian or Adama Banh, the team’s vice-captain who is Ivorian alongside David Owino and Davis Kasirye. As we wish our four envoys success in their crucial duels, we take this opportunity to remind them that this is a golden opportunity for them to redeem the country’s dwindling fortunes with a victory, which should boost their confidence in both the Champions League and Confederation Cup. Victories for the four representatives will be a good start of season for them and as well will place them where they really stand at the continental level standards. We call on fans to turn out in numbers in two major venues; Amaan and the national stadium to cheer our four envoys on Saturday and Sunday.