Speaking in an interview, the FCF Project Manager, Ms Nana Grosse-Woodley has explained that the fund owns six companies dealing in photography and hunting tourism as well as conservation in an area measuring 2.8 million acresSome of the companies under FCF include Tanzania Game Tracker Safari, Wengert Windrose Safari and Mwiba Holdings. “We operate in Maswa Game Reserve, Mwiba ranch as well as Mbono, Kimali and Makao in Meatu, Uvinza, Ugala Game Reserve in addition to Moyowosi and Lake Natron Game Reserve,” the manager explained. She explained on the other hand that Mwiba Holdings Limited through FCF has dished out 541m/- to support development projects in Makao Wildlife Management Area in Meatu district, Simiyu Region, noting further that the funds were dished out last year alone. “Last year, we donated 89.2 million to nine villages in addition to 80 million to Makao village for lease of the ranch in the area,” the manager explained. Through tourism activities, she said the company raised funds and paid out 28.8 million to Iramba village and the same amount to Mbushi and Makao villages. Speaking of Wengert Safaris, Ms Grosse-Woodley said the company operates in the southern part of Moyowosi Game Reserve and Makere forest reserve. She explained that the company contributed 27.5 million last year in the areas it operates, with a huge chunk of the funds channelled for anti-poaching and conservation activities. “The company spent additional 36 million for development projects in Moyowosi including construction of classrooms for primary and secondary schools,” she explained. In regard to Tanzania Game Tracker Safaris, the company operates in Maswa and Ugalla Game Reserve where the company has invested a total of 159.8 million for community projects. The village Chairperson for Makao, Mr Anthony Philipo hailed Mwiba Holdings for supporting development projects in the community. “Apart from support to projects in the community the company has been dishing out three million for villages within the Wildlife Management Area,” he stated . The Regional Commissioner (RC) for Simiyu, Mr Anthony Mtaka said existence of tourism companies in the region has played an important role in boosting development in the area through execution of projects and taxes. Through investment by FCF, authorities in the Wildlife Management Area have apprehended 2,617 suspected poachers between 2013 and 2015. The operations were coordinated by the Tanzania Wildlife Authority (TAWA) and other state organs. Incidences of poaching have since then decreased from 1,226 in 2013 to 721 by the year 2015.