A sombre mood engulfed residents of Marangu Kitiwo Village and other mourners at large who attended the burial of the 22-year old girl, who died after she was hit by a stray bullet while in a commuter bus in Dar es Salam on February 16, 2018. Hundreds of people including politicians thronged to the deceased’s village to participate in the burial processes. Among leaders who attended the burial were Minister for Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Prof Joyce Ndalichako; Kilimanjaro Region Commissioner (RC), Ms Anna Mghwira; Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Mr Leonard Akwilapo; Kilimanjaro RPC, Hamis Issah; Acting Rombo District Commissioner (DC), Mr Kipi Warioba; Rombo MP (Chadema) Mr Joseph Selasini and others. Prof Ndalichako promised to support the deceased’s young sister who is in form three with education cost. “I have been informed that Akwilina was covering education costs for her younger sister, who is in form three; she was using the little amount of money she received from HESLB to help her sister, I will support her from now on,” said Prof Ndalichako. Meanwhile, all roads led to NIT grounds on Thursday where people from all walks of life thronged the institute in their hundreds to bid farewell to Akwilina whose dreams were cut short last week. She met the untimely death when police were attempting to quash an unsanctioned demonstration by the opposition Chama Cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Chadema) followers, ahead of the Kinondoni by-election held last Saturday. Minister for Education, Prof Ndalichako and Minister of Defence and National Service, Hussein Mwinyi were among the public figures who appeared to pay their last respects. Others were Deputy Minister for Home Affairs, Eng Hamad Masauni; Deputy Minister of Works, Transport and Communication Eng Atashasta Nditiye; Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC) Paul Makonda and Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander, Lazaro Mambosasa. Also opposition leaders from Chadema: Kibamba MP, John Mnyika and the losing candidate for Kinondoni constituency, Salum Mwalimu were among mourners who were paying their last respects to the fallen student. Prof Ndalichako told mourners that Akwilina’s death was a shock to everybody and that President John Magufuli has ordered relevant State organs to investigate the matter and take immediate legal measures. “I also make a call for security organs to hasten investigations,” insisted Prof Ndalichako, while RC Makonda urged the public to give investigators a chance to do their job professionally, instead of pointing fingers at each other. Earlier, Father Raymond Mayanga of Luhanga Parish who led the requiem mass preached on reconciliation, saying wisdom is highly needed to keep the society calm. He said whoever found guilty of doing something wrong must seek forgiveness before God and the community at large. “Media have been reporting that the deceased was shot to death. If so, the bullet did not release itself. There is somebody - mentally fit - who did so. He/she must be sought, whether it was a mistake or deliberate, an offence was committed. When found, he/ she has to ask for forgiveness …. because even if he/she is jailed up to 30 years, Akwilina won’t come back,” he noted