A study conducted by the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (Sumatra) in 2012 showed that 54 per cent of the commuters do not know their rights and responsibilities. It is obvious that many commuter bus users have been experiencing difficulties in getting services from bus owners and operators, who have been provided with licences to operate the business. On the other side, the buses owners and operators take advantage of passengers’ ignorance to exploit them by charging them more fares contrary to the indicative amount by Sumatra. For both sides to benefit from the business, it is high time, passengers and operators abide to the laws and regulations that are used in operating the business. It has been come to light that many passengers know nothing about the refund of fares in case the company fails to bring the bus on time and thus fail to reach to its destination on time. Many passengers do not understand if such kind of regulation exists on earth. Mr Sufiani Juma, a passenger heading to Tabora from Ubungo Bus Terminal, in Dar es Salaam, says he is aware of the said regulations but he is unaware if they are really operational. “I know such law exists, but I do not know where to go and ask for refund in case the bus does not show up after I have paid the fare,” he said. Another passenger, Mariamu Said, says she is not aware of such laws. “ Honestly, I know nothing about fares return in case the bus fails to get us to our destination,” she explained. Mariamu is one of victims of commuter bus harassment and violation of passengers’ rights. example, despite the presence of Sumatra’s regulation number 23 (1) (2) which gives right to a passenger to take board along with a luggage not exceeding 20 kilogrammes and 10 kilogrammes carried by a travelling child, passengers still undergo harassments from the staff of the said transport vehicles by being forced to pay for the said lugga Forge. It is challenging as most passengers who are unaware of the said regulations have always been on the receiving end of harassments from workers of the said vehicles. Hamisi Magembe, a passenger interviewed on arrival in Dar es Salaam from Shinyanga says: “ I have been forced to pay for my luggage in this bus (he pointed at the bus),” He added: “I tried to plead with the bus conductor that I would pay him on my arrival here in the city, but the bus conductor refused and promised not to give me my luggage until I pay him 5,000/-. Mr Magembe said he was not aware of any regulation that allows him to carry a luggage for free in the bus. “I have never heard of such a thing but I ask the authorities to educate us via media so that we can understand our rights,” said Mr Magembe. An official with the Sumatra Consumer Consultative Council who is responsible for Public Education, Nicholas Kinyariri said his office provides education to the public through media, seminars and special lessons for students in secondary and higher learning institutions. This move has also involved major events such as the Road Safety Week, through which education for the public regarding rights and responsibilities for both passengers and transport operators is disseminated. Mr Kinyariri admits that there are passengers who are not aware of their rights and those who are aware but shy to claim them. “Those who are aware of them just need to be courageous and go for them, hence being in the fore line of making the transport owners to respect the said laws,” he says. As regards luggage carried in buses, he says this has always been caused by bus owners who do not keep weighing machines to determine the weight of luggage carried by passengers. Bus conductor Abdul Rajabu and his driver, Suleiman Suleiman are among staff within the circles of transporters who confess they are also not aware of the laws and regulations governing passengers and the luggage they carry while travelling. However, another bus conductor, Robert John says he does not want to know anything about the said regulations as luggage carried by passengers is his source of additional income.