Iran’s Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Mousa Farhang, told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that Tanzania’s business affairs were good save for a few challenges, notably lack of reliable transportation means such as air and marine. Tanzania and Iran had strong bilateral relations which covered oil issues dating some years back. “We have a very good relationship on oil trade. That is why even now you can see oil and what is produced by oil is imported from Iran to Tanzania,” he said at a press conference ahead of the anniversary of the Revolution of the Islamic Republic of Iran celebrated annually on February 11. He called upon the private sector in Tanzania to do extra work to promote trade between Tanzania and Iran. “We are currently preparing the fifth session of the Iran-Tanzania Economic Forum. When Tanzania's Foreign Affairs Minister Dr Augustine Mahiga visited Iran recently, he got a good opportunity to have a dialogue on various sectors with Iranian partners,” he further said. According to him, it was his belief that as from now on they would have more enhanced trade relations between two countries having recognized availability of good investment regulations in Tanzania that are likely to attract many investors from Iran. “Thanks to the Tanzanian Parliament and other various businessrelated sectors in setting this environment that makes more investors to come to Tanzania. We see Tanzania as a country that will grow more economically in the near future,” he said. The 11th of February is an annual celebration of the Islamic Revolutionary victory which took place on February 11, 1979, when the Islamic Revolution of Iran led by Imam Khomein (MA), the chief of the Iranian Islamic Republic, succeeded in overthrowing the bark of Pahlavi regime. Such Revolution disturbed all global equations and international discipline made by the United States in the Middle East, while the initial sparks of the Revolution revived hopes to reach a new global discipline and undermine the old bipolar tradition developed following Cold War Era. The Director of the Cultural Centre of the Republic of Iran, Dr Alli Bagheri, is quoted as saying that Iran, which already was one of the main power bases of the US in the region, now is in its way to become a new power threatening hegemony and domination of the United States in the region.