The project targets commissioning of electricity in areas that were not connected during the implementation of first and the second rural electrification projects yet, they have infrastructures in place. Energy Deputy Minister, Ms Subira Mgalu told the National Assembly here yesterday when responding to a supplementary question from Morogoro South MP, Mr Omary Mgumba (CCM). “REA is in talks with the development partners and we expect after they (Rea and partners) reach consensus, we will okay the second phase of rural energy densification,” she told the house. Mr Mgumba had requested clarification as to when 13 villages in his area will get electricity despite being surveyed among 20 villages with only three villages being connected. He went on to say, “There are only 17 villages out of 64 villages that have access to energy.” He demanded to know whether the six wards of Tegefedo, Kibuko, Tomondo, Tumanguo, Seregete, Matuli and Mkulizi will be electrified since the first two REA projects had by-passed the areas. At least eight regions in Tanzania Mainland benefited from the first round of the rural electrification. But the Deputy Minister says all the villages will now get power. She explained that part of the villages that were not listed in the previous Rea projects will be electrified come 2021. “The third project of rural electrification includes electrifying at least 14 villages before April 2019,” she said, naming the villages as Tununguo, Kibwege, Lung’ala, kidugalo, Kinonko, Vihengele, Konde, Vigolegole, singisa, rudewa, Bonye, Mtego wa Simba, Muungano and Mangala. The villages according to the official are also part of the strategic project that involves constriction of the long awaited Kidunda dam and the state-funded sugar-factory. At least 1.3bn/- is expected to be spent constructing a 16.5 km long 33kV distribution line and a 16 km long 0.4kV line with eight transformers. The project implemented by State Grid Electrical and Technical Works Ltd is projected to benefit 258 new customers.