The Minister of Livestock and Fisheries, Mr Luhaga Mpina, has revealed that only eight out of 24 ships that had been given deep sea fishing licences had undergone inspection while 16 others had vanished. Mr Mpina made the revelation after inspecting a fishing vessel belonging to a Chinese Company XISHIJI 37 which recently docked at the Dar es Salaam Port. “A follow up on the ships is being undertaken for the law to take its course, considering that we have all their information … and it has transpired that some ministry officials are involved in the scandal. Stringent measures will be taken against all officials involved,” Mr Mpina said. The minister also directed that a seized fishing vessel belonging to Buah Naga One Company of Malaysia be transported to Dar es Salaam for further actions. According to him, the vessel violated a government order requiring its owners to pay a fine amounting to 350,000 US dollars (770m/-), which was to be paid within seven days after the seizure. The Minister explained that the ship was inspected by a special task force on January 25, this year, of the Lindi and Mtwara coastlines and it transpired that it was carrying fins and gills of 30 sharks and four tonnes of rare species, contrary to the law. Mr Mpina also ordered that the vessel be transferred from Mtwara Port to Dar es Salaam for further action. M r Mpina also directed his Per- manent Secretary (PS), Dr Yohana Budeba, to speed up the process of seeking a court permit to facilitate ship’s confiscation along with 42 tonnes of fish and four tonnes of rare species which were found there, for subsequent auctioning. Among other things, he directed the authorities to search and take action against another vessel owned by Tai Hong No 1, which was inspected and found with 44 shark fins, contrary to the law. “Before the vessel could be inspected, the captain of the seriously spirited objected and was later implicated in offences, including environmental pollution … then the ship mysteriously disappeared,” noted the minister. He pointed out that when the current government took office, it amended the deep sea fishing regulations of 2009 and added more sections that gave room for curbing illegal fishing, to enable the nation benefit fully from its fishing resources. The minister cited some of the requirements as including inspection before and after fishing and 10 per cent of the captains in the vessels should be locals to facilitate knowledge transfer of deep sea fishing knowledge. Others include offloading rare species and hand them over to the Deep Sea Fishing Authority as well as paying royalties of 0.4 US dollars for every kilogramme of fish. Mr Mpina commended the Chinese Company XISHIJI 37 for taking trouble to have its ship inspected, calling on others to follow suit. He reiterated that the government was not to antagonise investors, but to ensure that laws and regulations were scrupulously observed. On his part, Dr Budeba observed that the government’s commitment in ensuring that marine resources were preserved for the benefit of current and future generations. He pledged to effectively work on all the directives issued by the minister, cautioning the ministry’s officials against engaging in any kind of fraud