The accident occurred on Monday at around 2:00 in the afternoon at Kilembo Village in Sumbawanga District as the car was heading to Sumbawanga Municipality from Milepa Village along the Lake Rukwa Basin in Sumbawanga District. The vehicle, DFP 3351, driven by Raphael Francis (25) was carrying Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Joachim Wangabo‘s entourage, among them this reporter, Azam TV reporter, Ms Juddy Ngonyani and Channel Ten reporter, Wilbroad Sumia. Others in the list were the Rukwa CCM Regional Publicity Secretary, Mr Clemence and officials from Sumbawanga District Council, including District Livestock Officer, Mr Daud Mwangele , Technician, Mr Simon Kundulu, Procurement Officer, Mr Ibrahim Lumuli, Internal Auditor, Mr Agustine Mtelevu and Tanzania Buildings Agency (TBA) Senior Official, Mr Edgar Amos. The Sumbawanga District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr Fani Mussa told the ‘Daily News’ late yesterday that seven passengers were admitted to Rukwa Regional Referral Hospital in Sumbawanga Municipality for treatment and through diagnosis. Those admitted to regional referral facility were Dr Mtika, Mr Bakuli, Mr Sumia, Mr Mwangele, Mr Mtelevu, Mr Kundulu and Mr Lumuli. The seven injured people were admitted to the hospital’s Intensive Care Unit (ICU). The Daily News reporter, Mr Siyame and Azam TV reporter, Ms Ngonyani were allowed to go home as both of them did not sustain any injuries. The RC accompanied by Sumbawanga District Commissioner (DC), Dr Halfany Haule and other senior government officials led over 3,000 residents of Milepa Ward along the Lake Rukwa Basin who turned up to participate on expansion of Milepa Heath Centre. Curious residents of Kilembo Village rushed to the scene of accident and removed all the passengers who were trapped inside the ill –fated vehicle at the same time the Police Van , RC and DC vehicles had to return to the scene of accident and witnessed what had transpired. It was at that juncture another vehicle with registration number SM 6750 property of Sumbawanga District Council rushed injury passengers to regional referral facility in Sumbawanga Town for treatment. The Sumbawanga DC Dr Haule told this paper over the phone that the driver of the ill fated vehicle, Mr Francis was rushed to the nearby dispensary closer to the scene of incident and was formally discharged after being examined. “Driver Francis is novice of the bumpy road he was cruising on as he was employed by the Sumbawanga District Council three months ago” added Dr Haule. On his part , the Rukwa Regional Police Commander (RPC), Mr George Kyando said investigations over the road carnage is on progress to find out its cause