Already Kenya and Rwanda have inked EPA document with the European Union while Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi and South Sudan are yet to sign. On July 6, last year, the First Instance Division declined to grant the orders as sought by the applicant which led the applicant to the appellate division for appeal. Court in its order said that, before the session resumed it received a communication from the appellant between him and his hotel to the effect that his agent was indisposed and will not be able to take up the hotel booking and that the copy of the communication be made available to the Appeals desk (Court) with the view that they can set another sitting day. That the doctor’s letter granting five (5) days bed rest was also attached. Court further said that, with the attention of the counsels for the respondents on the said communication, all counsels took a common position that was not in a sense of a proper communication for adjournment as it was not addressed to court, neither to the respondents. That they accordingly asked that the appeal be dismissed under Rule 1(2) of the EACJ Rules of Procedure. In its order also said that, “We are persuaded by the Respondents argument that the Appellant’s conduct in seeking to communicate through the hotel is disrespectful attitude conduct in this Court as it amounts to the abuse to the Court process” Justice Aaron Ringera read. In addition, court said that, “We are convinced that the appellant's conduct also manifests disrespect in the appeal. “We accordingly grant the prayers of the respondents and order that this appeal be dismissed and costs awarded to the respondents who attended court today [last Friday]”. These were representative of the Attorneys General from Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda and the Secretary General of the EAC present in court. The court also said that the matter was fixed last Friday for scheduling and all the parties were duly notified, but when the court convened, the appellant was absent and so were the AGs of Burundi, South Sudan and Tanzania. However, the court had received an official communication from Burundi of their inability to appear. The order of the court was read by Justice Ringera with other Justices of the Appellate Division in open Court. The EPA is intended to guarantee the EAC traders duty-and-quota free access to the EU market in exchange for a gradual opening of up to 80 per cent of the region’s market to European products. Kenya was desperate to have the agreement signed to safeguard unlimited duty free access of its exports to Europe after Tanzania and Uganda said the deal initialed in late 2014 needed to be renegotiated following Britain’s exit from the bloc.