He gave the pledge focused on that vision at the State House in Dar es Salam yesterday, after taking an oath of office that was administered by President John Magufuli who is also the Commander- in-Chief of the Armed Forces. The decorated Principal Staff Officer said he would throw his weight fully into the critical mission of crafting strategies to ensure that the vision was fully implemented. “Currently, we have a vision that aims at building a modern, disciplined and modern army. My duty is to come up with strategies to ensure that it is realised,” said Lieutenant General Mohammed. Former Chiefs of Staff who attended the swearingin ceremony advised the new TPDF Head of Staff to stay focused in his duties, including serving the military personnel with impartiality. Former CS Lieutenant General Samuel Ndomba asked the incoming Principal Staff Officer to perform his duties professionally to the satisfaction of the appointing authority and all army personnel. “Whatever you do, remember that you are the servant of all TPDF personnel. Don’t ever think that you are there to represent the interests of a particular grouping based on any inclinations, Lieutenant General Ndomba warned. He cautioned the new Chief of Staff against condoning divisions of any sort within the army. “We fully understand that before your appointment as new TPDF Head of Staff, you had and still have friends. You also belong to a certain tribe and religion. All those aspects should not influence your leadership. Don’t ever make the President regret for appointing you,” the former Chief of Staff counselled. He advised the new CS to take note that the title was just a function that someone else could perform. The immediate former CS, Lieutenant General Alois Mwakibolwa, asked the new TPDF Head of Staff to ensure full implementation of the new vision. However, he asked the new army leader to change a bit from being a soft spoken person to a tough talking one. “I understand that you are a soft-spoken person. Given the new post into which you have been thrust, you have to change a bit or else they may not understand you,” Lieutenant General Mwakibolwa said. He further more pointed out that there were threats of different sorts in the world that called for building of a modern, disciplined and efficient army. He did not delve into details though, telling the new leader that: “I will tell you more when I hand over the office to you, including the status of the army and the way forward.” Former Chief of Staff Lieutenant General Iddi Gao advised Lieutenant General Mohammed to be positive, patriotic, transparent and focused. “In whatever you do,