It is hats off to the National Service building brigade which has accomplished the job two months ahead of the appointed time. What remains to be done now is the installation of surveillance cameras and other electronic devices that will dot the 25-kilometre wall. The wall has only one gate that will serve as the entry and exit point. This will help control potential smugglers and thieves. But this is not enough. Mineral thieves are cunning elements who could use loaded fly-by-night drones or even dig tunnels beneath the wall to accomplish their escapees. In fact, there are dozens of modern-day gimmicks that dishonest miners can use to evade taxation. President John Magufuli directed Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) to build the wall around tanzanite blocks A to D at Mirerani and install high-tech equipment to monitor mining activities, so the government can earn proper revenue in terms of royalties. The president also directed that trading in tanzanite gemstones should now be conducted in Simanjiro only in order to promote trade and development in the area. It is imperative that this presidential order is heeded once all the security devices are in place. Recent reports indicate that tanzanite gemstones worth nearly 700 billion/-are smuggled out of the country annually through illegal means with the lot ending up in the neighbouring country of Kenya and to as far afield as India and South-Africa. While Kenya handles Tanzanite Minerals valued at 100m US dollars annually and India documents the blue gemstones worth 300m dollars , it is surprising that Tanzania, the source of the gemstones, earns a miserable 38m dollars worth of tanzanite a year. This is incredible. It is apparent that most of the tanzanite mined at Mirerani is shunted out of the country tax free. The produce does not benefit Tanzanians--not even the residents of Simanjiro who actually own the minerals. This is a laughable affair. President Magufuli expressed sadness that tanzanite, which is not found anywhere else in the world except Tanzania, has benefitted foreign individuals and foreign countries more, while people in Simanjiro do not have basic needs such as clean water and health services. The Simanjiro District Commissioner (DC), Eng. Zephania Chaula, has said that in addition to the perimeter wall, authorities are issuing identity cards to people who work in the mines and so far, 6,000 miners have been issued with the cards. The noble initiative continues. And this is not all. Quarry owners have been instructed to provide their employees with official contracts unlike in the past when they used to hire them on temporary basis. Already, more than 2,000 miners have been issued with contracts. This is the way to go.