This is because originally being a Western Christian feast day; it recognized the significant cultural, religious, and commercial celebration of romance which are common traits in humanity. Especially to the youth, they should not indulge in indiscriminate immoralities in the name of celebrating it, for in the past, many people have associated the day with loose love day, without realizing that it can be expressed in many forms including sharing the good things you have with others, helping the depressed feel that there is hope through words of encouragement and others. As the public would mark it, they should be wary of drug abuse, smoking, reckless driving, unnecessary brawls, and reckless sex which would result into sexually transmitted diseases including HIV/ AIDS and unplanned pregnancies. The youth mostly, should carry the spirit of the day by reinforcing peace and stability in the society and visit the sick who require their love in hospital beds, and equally should never imagine of painting the day/town red by over taking alcohol, and getting behind a wheel to drive home or the next bar. Everyone should know that alcohol is a mocker and endangers the life of one who would be tempted to take it and jump onto the road. Everyone should know that the Law knows nothing about the Valentine Day and breaking it would still call for the normal consequences. Apart from putting themselves in danger, drunk motorists would also be risking the safety of other road users by dangerous driving because alcohol taken during the day to show “solidarity and get company” may necessitate aggressive driving and land one in jail. This is because alcohol has a very significant effect on the functions of the body which are vital to driving and being able to function and reason accurately. It is a depressant, which mainly affects the function of the brain and judgment in performing everyday task, and hence should not be associated with the day. Equally, as one may think of celebrating the day, one ought to take care of preying scammers who would prey on “heart strings, your purse strings” especially for those who would be looking for online lovers. Other types of Valentine’s Day ruses include phony florists asking for your credit card information or e-cards directing you to suspicious sites, hence be watchful and don’t provide any personal information right off the bat, including your home address, work details and educational background. Don’t share your passwords carelessly in the public exposing your personal information in the online dating profiles, and instead get a second opinion from friends and family who can be objective and lastly don’t respond to any requests for money or loans of any kind in the course