The Summit, conceptualized by FIFA President Gianni Infantino with the main theme, ‘Bringing Football Back to FIFA and FIFA to Football’, is aimed at strengthening the relationship between FIFA and its member associations. This summit will be of huge significance for the country because it brings top brass from FIFA as well as those from the Confederation of African Football (CAF), which include its Presidents, Infantino and Ahmad Ahmad respectively. They will be in the country from February 20th to 23rd this year. Ahead of the summit, which comes as a reward for the strides the country has made in football development, Tanzania is buzzing and looking forward to reap the benefits of hosting such a huge event. Yes! It is important for the country to seize the opportunity of hosting a meeting of such magnitude, to ensure its ripples leave significant effect to the country’s football development. We believe hosting FIFA summit on the country’s soil will bring with it potential benefits for football product in particular and Tanzania as a whole. The international football event will help to “raise the profile” of Tanzania’s football and “will have a positive economic impact” on the tourism product. As indicated by the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe, the fact that FIFA selected Tanzania to host such a meeting, signifies that the World football governing body has faith with policies and strategies the country was taking in developing the game. FIFA has shown faith in us and the kind of transformation the organisation is undergoing under the leadership of President Infantino was a replica of what the fifth phase government under President John Magufuli was doing here. We are all cleaning our houses. Going into the summit, we hope FIFA will amplify its efforts to develop and promote Tanzania’s football worldwide, at every level. However, it is equally important to remind Tanzanians that we should show delegates to the summit that we value their visit and show them that Tanzania is a really football nation.