Mr Okumu, who is currently pursuing nursing and midwifery studies at Shirati School of Nursing And Midwifery, says it has been easy to stand where he is today. To him, everything thing has been difficult. However, he does not curse the day he was born, instead he takes courage and move forward with full determination. Mr Okumu was born 27 years ago in a family of six children. He is the first born and the only boy in his family. His father died when they were still young and his mother was remarried to another man. According to Mr Okumu, he was raised by his grandmother, who unfortunately died in 2017. “I am the only child in my family who managed to attend secondary school education,” he said. According to Mr Msafiri, poverty and lack of support from family members were the main obstacles for his failure to get essential needs at school. He said his sister got married at young age because of poverty. “My sisters did not go to school, they were immediately married and they are now taking care of their families,” he said. The roots are bitter but the fruit is sweet Mr Okumu narrates that it was easy for him to get education. He was smart in class but poverty chained his legs and hands. There was no way he could attend further studies after completing his primary education. According to Mr Okumu, he completed his primary education in 2005 for the first time. He was selected to join secondary school, but due to lack of money for school fees and buying other essential materials, he failed to enroll for school. He repeated the class at Utegi Primary School in Rorya district and completed in 2007 for the second time, Mr Okumu passed the exams and he was selected once again to join secondary education. The poor boy did not have anyone to support him. His grandmother was the only home to him, however, she could not manage to raise enough money for his school fees, essential needs and taking care of the family, Mr Okumu was forced to stay at home while his fellow students joined form one in different secondary schools across the region. “This was the difficult moment for me, I did not know what to do, I experienced the great pain that are caused by poverty, but above all, I did not give up, I knew something good would come out one day,” narrates Mr Okumu. In 2008, Mr Okumu repeated the class for the third time, this time he registered at Nyanduga primary school. Once again, Mr Okumu passed the exam and was selected to join secondary education, however, like before Mr Okumu was not lucky to get money or anyone to support him. “That was my third time, I real felt unlucky, my three years of repeating classes meant nothing to my future, but I kept trying, I knew God was going to do something for me,” explains Mr Okumu. The courageous Okumu decided to repeat the class for the fourth time at Mchirobi primary school in 2010, as usual, Mr Okumu passed the exams and he was selected to join Nyamisangura Secondary School in Mara Region. However, as usual he experienced the same problem. He did not have money to enroll for secondary education. One step at a time This time around, Mr Okumu prayed hard to God and set all his focus at raising the money on his own. “ I said to myself that money should not be a problem to me again. I was determined to do anything legal to get the money for my education, I wanted to achieve my dream,” explains Mr Okumu. A man of courage, decided to prepare a special form, which he used to request for contributions from good samaritans in different areas. According to Mr Okumu, some people supported him with contribution and he managed to collect a total of 127,000/- “I managed to collect 127,000 from good Samaritans. I used the money for buying exercise books, school uniforms and paying essential needs at school as well as school fees, this is how I enrolled for secondary school in 2011,” says Mr Okumu. After enrolling for form one in 2011, Mr Okumu continued to experience difficulties, it was easy for him to get essential needs including text books, exercise books and other reading materials. He says that during holidays and mid-term leave, he spent hours working in farms where he was paid little wages. “I was working in people’s farms, construction sites and other activities, I badly needed money for school, therefore after my leave, I joined my fellow at school and continued with studies as usual,” narrates Mr Okumu. In 2014, Mr Okumu was among hundreds of students who sat for form four national examinations. He passed the examinations with division four of 26 points. “ I did not perform well, therefore it was difficult for me to continue with further studies in the government school, I needed a special support,” he says. Light at the end of the tunnel He said after completing his secondary education, he stayed home…working in people’s farms in his village. But above all, Mr Okumu is a born-again Christian. He had a schedule of praying for patients and all needy persons like him in different areas in the district. According to Mr Okumu, he used to go to Tarime District Hospital to pray for patients. While at the Hospital, he met a Doctor who he remembers by one name as Dr Tom. According to Mr Okumu,he asked him why he is not at school. “He was aware that I completed my secondary school education, so he wanted to know what happened, I told him my story,” says Mr Okumu. How MBM came to Okumu’s life “It was like a miracle, after I narrated my story to Dr Tom, he asked him if I was interested to join nursing and midwifery course, I said that was my long time dream….” He narrates. Mr Okumu said Dr Tom told him that there was a project More and Better Midwives (MBM) that support interested, capable, qualified and committed youth to join the nursing and midwifery course. The project is funded by the Canadian government through its Global Affairs Department and implemented by Jhpiego in collaboration with AMREF Health Africa and Canadian Association of Midwives (CAM)/Tanzania Midwives Association (TAMA). Mr Okumu said he was among the few youth who were selected to join Shirati School of Nursing And Midwifery under the MBM scholarship. “What can I say…I consider this project my ‘parents’, I thnk God for bringing it up, I can see my dreams coming true through MBM,” explains Mr Okumu. The project has so far granted scholarships to 112 students from hard-to-reach areas in Lake Zone and Western Regions. The project, which also helps to improve quality of trainings in various nursing colleges, renovations of some parts of hospital and nursing schools buildings covers a total of eight regions in the said two zones. It also aims at ensuring well being for women and children as well as offering trainings to nurses and increase their numbers in various hospitals, health centres and dispensaries across the country. The regions that are covered in the project include Kigoma and Tabora in the Western zone. In the Lake zone, the project covers Kagera, Mwanza, Mara, Shinyanga, Geita and Simiyu. The deputy project director, Dr Wilson Kitinya told the ‘Daily News’ that in the first year of the scholarship program, the project covered a total of 55 students from poor families and that they have been able to enroll for midwifery programme in various colleges. He said during the second year intake, the number has increased to 57 beneficiaries and that so far the project covers a total of 112 students from eight regions. He said the project is being implemented by involving a total of 20 hospitals. On renovation, the deputy project director said this year at least three skills labs will be renovated at three colleges. “We are also renovating preceptor corners in various hospitals so as to easy training for midwifery students,” he said. Preceptor corners in hospitals help to impart knowledge and skills required to provide bedside instruction to and evaluation of orienteers. Formal preceptor preparation programs that provide practical information for immediate application are necessary for successful transition of orienteers into patient care environments. Essential content includes the importance of socialization, skill building techniques, critical thinking facilitation, and assignment management. Launching the project last year the Deputy Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Dr Faustine Ndugulile said the government has taken significant measures including introducing good policies that support strengthening in midwifery care so that the country can have quality and competence midwives for a well-being of women and children in the country. He said the government was thankful and supportive to the implementation of the project adding that having a healthy mother and a healthy baby and family integrity can only result from high quality services from midwives.