On top of that, the state has also issued a directive to the Deep Sea Fishing Authority (DSFA) to write a notice to owners of vessels and the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC) concerning the decision. Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Luhaga Mpina (pictured) said in Zanzibar, yesterday, that the decision was reached following vessels violating the Deep Sea Fishing Authority Act of 1998, regulation number 10, together with number 68 of Deep Sea Regulations of 2009 and its amendment of 2016, for not reporting to the Port of Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar, Tanga or Mtwara for inspection before leaving Tanzanian deep sea. “With this act of violation of their licence means they have involved themselves in illegal fishing, polluting the environment significantly, have conducted arbitrary fishing and other offences in the deep sea, these acts made the government to lose income,” said Mpina. He added that the government was not ready to work with people who break the law and that the operation to seize such fishing vessels will continue until all perpetrators are arrested. He said some people from other countries were benefiting from the 223,000 square kilometres sea, but in the fifth phase government, they will make sure those resources are contained within the area to contribute to the GDP. The Permanent Secretary (PS - fisheries sector), Dr Yohana Budeba, said the government will continue to fight illegal fishing. DSFA Acting Director General, Hosea Mbilinyi mentioned the vessels required to pay the fines as Tai Hong No. 2, Tai Hong No. 8, Tai Xiang No.5, Tai Xiang No. 8, Tai Xiang No. 9, Tai Xiang No. 10, Tai Xiang No.7, Tai Xiang No 6, Tai Hong No 6, Tai Hong No 7, Xian Shiji No. 81, XinShiji No. 82, XinShiji No. 83, XinShiji No. 86, XinShiji No.76, XinShiji No. 76 and JianShen No. 1. State Attorney from the Office of the Attorney General (AG) Prosecution Division Headquarters in Dar es Salaam, Wankyo Simon said if the ship owners fail to pay the money within the given time, his office will carry on with prosecution procedures. Moreover, Wankyo said that apart from measures taken by the court, the government will consult with the countries that offered the flags to the vessels to deregister them and ban them from fishing activities across the world.