AfCHPR Registrar, Dr Robert Eno said the three-day mission that starts Monday is part of the ongoing efforts of the Court to interact with different stakeholders, in order to deepen their understanding of its mission and importance and to encourage states to ratify the Protocol establishing the AfCHPR and deposit the declaration under Article 34(6), which allows direct access to the Court by Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and individuals. Dr Eno quoted the President of the AfCHPR, Justice Sylvain Oré welcoming SADR’s invitation to conduct the sensitisation, adding that it was a step in the right direction. “For the Court to achieve its objectives and further strengthen African human rights systems, a greater number of countries must ratify the Protocol and make the declaration under Article 34(6),’’ he stressed. The registrar noted that during the mission, the Court delegation composed of three judges and registry staff will hold a seminar for human rights stakeholders in the country, and also pay courtesy calls on the SADR President and the speaker of the National Assembly, among others. Dr Eno noted that the main objective of the visit is to encourage SADR, which has already ratified the Protocol, to deposit the declaration required under Article 34(6) of the Protocol. So far, 30 out of 55 AU member states have ratified the Protocol and only eight of them have deposited the declaration recognising the competence of the Court to receive cases from NGOs and individuals. The eight states are Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Malawi, Mali, Tanzania and Tunisia. The AfCHPR was established by virtue of Article 1 of the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the Establishment of an African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights, to complement the protective mandate of the African Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights, with a view to enhancing the protection of human rights on the continent. The success of the Court as a human rights protection mechanism requires a wider ratification of the Protocol by member states, as well as their acceptance of the competence of the Court, by making the declaration under the said article. The ‘universal’ ratification will give the Court the legitimacy it needs to effectively discharge its mandate.