One fifth of these or between 110 million and 190 million people, experience significant disabilities and Tanzania is inclusive. These are persons just like any other individuals in the society and deserve dignity, respect and love, however, in some instances, on average they have experienced some forms of adverse socio-economic segregation, which have in turn lowered their levels of education, contributed to poor health, and lowered their levels of acquiring employment and fight poverty. In this light, when a philanthropic organisation like Plan International Tanzania, readjusts its budget to ensure that all young people in the society are empowered, including the ones living with disabilities, they deserve pats on the back which every organisation and individual in the country ought to have as its first agenda. Partnering with the government to fight poverty by training the youth on the right skills to easily acquire employment or be self-employed especially the ones living with disabilities is in itself creating awareness in the society that disability is not inability to deliver. Such organisations should be extolled and given any form of conducive environment to keep on empowering the youth and make the marginalised people feel as also potential employees in the Fifth Phase Industrialisation drive of the government. People living with disabilities should be motivated to come out fully in the public and join the groups of fellow youths and have access to loans from the banks and start-up projects or businesses which can employ many of them with skills, but ‘feel shy and discouraged.’ Just because someone has a disability doesn’t mean he or she is living a life that’s any less than an able-bodied person’s, and instead it is high time employers gave them priority in employment and reasonably accommodate them also in capability building trainings to improve their skills to deliver more. Widespread ignorance, fear and stereotypes ideas which discourage them in the society and unfairly discriminate them in employment should now be the next campaign of such NGOs. If this is not looked into, they will experience high unemployment levels, remain in low status jobs and receive lower than average remuneration, which should not be the case. This is because life itself is not discriminative and the prices of goods in the market are general, including house rents.