Amb. Mfumukeko was speaking at the press conference held at the EAC Headquarters to update media on the upcoming Joint EAC Heads of State Retreat as well as 19th Ordinary Summit of the EAC Heads of State which will also be held in Kampala. Amb. Mfumukeko said the joint Heads of State Retreat themed “Deepening and widening regional integration through Infrastructure and Health Sector Development in the EAC Partner States’’ is aimed at accelerating the attainment of the objectives of the EAC Development Strategy, African Union Agenda 2063 and the Sustainable Development Goals in the infrastructure and health sectors in the EAC. He said the joint Retreat is expected to give impetus to infrastructure and health development by way of harnessing political support for regional flagship projects, funding commitments and Public-Private Partnerships arrangements. Amb. Mfumukeko said that the EAC had identified infrastructure development and health as sectors in which it would have to invest massive resources to spur economic growth and prosperity in East Africa. “Let me assure you that EAC Investment in Infrastructure projects and Health development continues to receive the utmost political attention by none other than EAC Heads of States,’’ said the Secretary General. Amb. Mfumukeko said the retreat would be preceded by separate infrastructure and health sector investors’ and donors’ round-tables on 21st February 2018, Ministerial Session of the 36th Meeting of the Council of Ministers and the Ministerial Session of the 35th Extra-Ordinary. He further disclosed that the 4th Joint Retreat Programme will include an International Infrastructure and Health Sector Exhibition that will run from 21st to 22nd February, 2018. The Exhibition will provide a platform for players in the Infrastructure and Health sectors to showcase new products and services as well as exhibit the latest advances in research and innovation. The EAC Heads of State Retreat on regional infrastructure and health projects comes in the wake of a UN report on how poor infrastructure is slowing economic development of African countries. The 2018 edition of the African Economic Outlook (AEO) presented to delegates at the African Union Summit last month said African economies have been resilient to negative shocks, yet poor infrastructure remains a key obstacle to the continent’s inclusive growth. The report highlights infrastructure as one of Africa’s weak points in terms of quantity, affordability, quality and attributes this problem to lack of investment. According to the report, Africa registered an average real gross domestic product (GDP) growth of 3.6 percent in 2017, increasing from 2.2 percent in 2016. The report forecasted that Africa’s GDP growth will accelerate to reach 4.1 percent in 2018 and 2019. East Africa remains the fastest-growing sub region in Africa, with estimated growth of 5.6 per cent in 2017, up from 4.9 per cent in 2016. The region is projected to register strong economic growth this and next year on resurgence of agriculture due to favourable weather condition, heavy investments in infrastructure development and manufacturing. The African Development Bank predicts growth in the region to remain buoyant, reaching 5.9 per cent in 2018 and firming further to 6.1 per cent in 2019. “Strong growth is widespread in the sub region, with many countries including Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda growing five per cent or more” the bank says in its Africa Economic Outlook 2018.