Minerals Deputy Minister Dotto Biteko further asked them to cooperate each other and ensure that they pay desirable taxes and other levies. Mr Biteko made an appeal during his visit to Nyakavangala gold mine in Iringa on Monday. This is continuation of efforts by the Fifth Phase Government to protect the natural resources and ensure the country get fair share. The President John Magufuli last year ordered a special audit of mining companies to determine if they pay their fair share of taxes. The order for an audit follows an abrupt ban on exports of gold and copper concentrates. Dr Magufuli also ordered hundreds of export-bound shipping containers of mineral concentrate to be placed under 24-hour police watch until a thorough inspection was done to verify if the cargo was properly declared. Mr Biteko visited the mine in the region in order to see for himself a state of the mine and speak to the miners. He used the tour to remind the small miners over importance and their duty to pay tax for their own development and nation at large. “Taxes and levies you are entitled to pay are legally exist. They are for your own benefits and the country,” he emphasized. Explaining over why they should pay taxes, he said, it was the government’s source of income of which it comes back to the citizens in form of services: health and infrastructures, among others. On other hand, the miners at Nyakavangala gold mine to the deputy minister over various challenges they encounter including conflicts among them, which they said were leading to sluggish mining activities and deny them income. Upon this, Mr Biteko instructed them to get rid of the wrangles and instead they have to cooperate and be honest for the sake of having efficient mining activities. “The government intent is to see the artisanal miners countrywide love each other, cooperate and help each other in resolving issues facing you,” he told them. He went on briefing them over government’s plan on formalising their activities, a move which would upgrade them from small scale to middle scale and finally become large scale miners. Iringa Regional Commissioner Amina Masenza also insisted them to pay taxes accordingly, asking them to quit mining activities if refuse to do so.“We don’t want to have a miner who doesn’t pay tax,” he stated.