The CJ was speaking shortly after the swearing-in of the AG, Dr Adelardus Kilangi, his deputy, Mr Paul Ngwembe and two judges - George Masaju and Gerson Mdemu - at State House. President John Magufuli appointed Dr Kilangi and Mr Ngwembe on Thursday evening. Dr Kilangi replaced Mr Masaju and Mr Ngwembe replaced Mr Mdemu. The two were appointed judges by the Head of State. The CJ said that the AG is always a crucial person to the State since he/she is expected to offer legal advice on various matters. “This is a very crucial office. It needs people who are tolerant and patriotic, I believe, you will perform your duties as expected,” he said. He asked the AG and his DAG to always go beyond the events so that they can manage to face day to day challenges. Moreover, the CJ urged the new judges, Mr Masaju and Mr Mdemu to learn from others in performing their duties, so that they can easily be able to fulfil their responsibilities. He said that his office is looking forward to offer an induction course to all new judges to introduce them to the new chapter of life. He asked the two judges to always listen and learn from others in the legal sector. He said the two judges mustsettle down, forget where they come from and focus on the future and new assignments on their desks. “From now, you must focus on where you are going, settle down and forget what you have been doing before, this is a new chapter,” said Prof Juma. He said their appointment means a lot to the nation and the legal sector in the country in general. “Your appointment and swearing-in means a lot to this nation; you have agreed to take these responsibilities, therefore, you must understand that this is a crucial job which you must perform diligently,” he said. He added, “From now, I would like to urge you to learn from other judges, the registrars and advocates who will be coming with various legal arguments before you.” He urged the new judges to start thinking like ‘judges’ by listening to both sides before making decisions. “From now on, you must start thinking like judges, this means, you must carefully listen to both sides before making the right decisions,” he noted. Minister for Justice and Constitutional Affairs, Prof Paramagamba Kabudi said the former AG, who is now a Judge, Mr Masaju played a big role in introducing him to Parliament practices. “I was appointed to this post when the general budget was being presented in Parliament, Judge Masaju guided me on various issues related to budget tabling,” he said. Deputy Speaker, Dr Tulia Ackson who attended the swearing-in ceremony at the State House urged the two judges, AG and DAG to perform their duties meticulously. She asked the AG to get ready for Members of Parliament (MPs) in the House, saying he must try his best to cope with the environment. “I understand that you have been dealing with students, in Parliament, things are a bit different, I believe, you will be able to face the environment,” she said. The new Judge, Masaju said his long experience in the legal sector will help him to pursue his duties as required. According to Judge Masaju, he has been able to interact with Tanzanians at all levels and that his new post will enable him to offer justice without any problem. “I have been in public service for many years in the legal sector, I have interacted with ordinary and poor Tanzanians, politicians and many others, therefore, at this new post, I believe I will be able to deliver as expected,” he said. Judge Masaju said after serving as AG, he was thinking of retiring but God has another plan with him. “I attended Church service before coming to take an oath here. I am praying to the almighty God to guide me so that I can give equitable and fair judgments,” he said. The AG, Dr Kilangi said he is aware of challenges that face the AG’s office and the legal sector in the country and that he is prepared to address them. “I am taking the office knowing vividly that there are many challenges that need to be addressed,” he said. The AG added that there are also legal issues that need to be addressed at international level so that African countries could benefit through legal system. “It is quite clear that many AG’s offices in Africa are performing poorly on international law, international investment laws, we need to address all these challenges collaboratively,” he said. He promised to exercise professionalism, hardworking and patriotism in performing his duties