Speaking at the re-launch of Economic Society of Tanzania (EST) in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Phillip Mpango said it was important for economists to have a vibrant association that would be used as a platform to advise the government in preparing its new development vision. “We have begun initial preparations of the vision and mission of nation’s development after 2025. I am calling upon those to be elected to lead the new EST and my fellow economists to start thinking, align ourselves and contribute in that very important process for the development of Tanzania,” he said. Under the 2025 Development Vision, Tanzania is focused to transform the semiagricultural economy to a semi-industrial economy as a strategy to boost growth and development that will propel the nation into the league of middle income countries by 2025. Dr Mpango said the need for a vibrant local economists’ association is more relevant now than ever, as transformation to industrial economy was gaining momentum. He said that lack of a professional body to manage affairs of economists had led to some negative impacts, such as mushrooming of non-econ-omists in vital areas and policy formulation and decision making, which impact negatively on people due to the presence of fake economists in government offices, universities and the private sector. The images of local economists and universities which produce economists have been soiled in the eyes of the private sector, under the belief that when one fish goes bad others too are bad, he said. “I see that these harmful effects are because of lack of a strong and vibrant economists’ association in Tanzania. Therefore, I ask you this time around, we do differently to rectify the situation and I hope this will be once and for all,” he said. Earlier, the Central Bank Governor, Prof Florens Luoga, said there were challenges of loss of scholarship in providing professional advice, since there was no forum to encourage professionalism in advisory works. “We started to see scholarships for advising the government get lost. This happened because there was no forum for