Speaking to reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday, TBL’s Marketing Director for East Africa, Mr Thomas Kemphuis said that after intensive investigations by the beermaker’s experts, they established that no such incident had occurred, assuring the company’s stakeholders and the general public that its systems were foolproof, intact and secure. “After thorough investigations by our internal and external experts, TBL can confidently confirm that our data systems have neither been hacked into nor have they been compromised in any way, said Mr Kemphuis. “We would like to assure all our customers, partners and other stakeholders that there is no cause for panic or alarm as everything is in control.” Mr Kamphuis however, noted that the purported hacking of TBL systems had, “brought to light the passion behind Castle Lite Premium Lager and therefore, they have decided to reward their consumers by dropping the price of the brand from 2,500/- to 2,000/- starting today. “We also understand our consumer’s disappointment over our failure to host the concert in Tanzania this year and we are therefore, organising to take 12 consumers to South Africa for a full VIP experience at the Castle Lite Unlocks concert on 30th April where they will have chance to have a fantastic experience with their fellow enthusiasts,” he said. Kemphuis explained that the company takes the security of its systems seriously and that was why it had acted swiftly to investigate the claims of hacking from the media. “At TBL, safety is at the core of our operations. We pride ourselves on our excellent safety record which has been airtight over the years, he said, adding that TBL will always endeavour to continue strengthening its security features to inhibit any unforeseen outcomes. Tanzania Breweries Limited is the oldest and largest brewing company in Tanzania with over 75 per cent of the formal beer market in the market. It owns liquor brands, including Safari Lager; Kilimanjaro Premium Lager; Ndovu Special Malt; and Konyagi. The company also produces malt.