Previously, much fanfare attended the appointment of individuals to high-profile posts. The excitement embraced close and extended family members, as well as the wider cycles of friends, acquaintances and well-wishers. The appointees were garlanded, and hugged, tears of joy flowed liberally, followed by much partying. These manifested the presumed fact that, so-and-so had scored big; captured vividly by the Kiswahili expression “ameula”. The word “ ameula” derives from “kula”, which in turn denotes “to eat”. The inference was that the appointment was virtually a big blessing, via availing him or her, openings for enriching oneself. That encapsulated dirty deals in areas like tenders, tax evasion and over-invoicing, in which huge amounts of money changed hands. By breaching ethics, a crooked official also breached ethics, regulations and the law, to secure job opportunities and entrance into professional training institutions, for spouses, biological and extended family children, as well as acquaintances. Superstitious beliefs were factored into the issue, manifested by individuals hungering for easy-flowing cash and attendant benefits, contracting witchdoctors to engineer their appointments! The curtain to those perceptions was drawn come the Fifth Phase government, under which someone who had been fabulously feted upon appointment could be sacked. The fanfare has since seized, as the message has sunk deeper and deeper, that appointments represent staunch public service and not personal-family grandeur. It has become routine for senior officials being off-loaded, suspended pending investigations, and being given publicly-announced directives to undertake assignments related to public interest. Routine, too, is the trend of senior officials, in service, having switched to the private sector, as well as retirement, being probed over allegations of abuse of office and financial improprieties. Court cases are ongoing in respect of some of them. This is bad news for the unethical species, but very sweet news for wananchi. They are most delighted by the streamlining of public service delivery, as its net result is better, collective social welfare and economic development, as opposed to blessings for a thieving minority. To the government we say: Viva, and to paraphrase a popular Mozambican clarion call: A luta continua; the war against anti-social elements continues!