Customarily, the day is preceded by an exhibition week, from which the judiciary and its stakeholders show case activities in the quest of reaching and engaging the public all over the country. This article is inspired by the theme, in line with, this year’s commemoration, “Application of ICT in the timely delivery of justice while adhering to ethics” It is therefore, important to share the understanding of the theme. To do that, this article takes you through six amazing things in connection to the theme which you might have missed during the law week 2018. Number one, goes to the video conferencing technology; the launch of the state-of-the art of the Training and Information Resource Centre, at Kisutu Resident Magistrates Court was among the activities the Chief Justice, Professor Ibrahim Hamis Juma did during the Law Week. The center was built as part of the implementation of the Citizen-Centric Judicial Modernization and Justice Service Delivery Project under the support of the World Bank (WB) The center encompasses a modern video conferencing facility that links it to various High Court Zones, Institute of Judicial Administration Lushoto (IJA) and Keko Prison to start with. The technology will assist IJA to conduct skill-based (to cover skills gaps) trainings in the form of continuing education for the Judiciary staff and other justice sector. This means that facilitators will not be required to travel from one place to the other in order to present as experts can deliver their presentations from the center and be linked to participants in Dodoma, Kagera, Mbeya, IJA or anywhere else where facilities of these nature are available. The video conferencing technology will be used also to facilitate criminal and civil trials since it is linked to some prisons, which means, a prisoner may attend court proceedings without physically going to court. Similarly, witnesses in civil cases may testify from abroad or far distances without the need to appear physically in court. That was just a tip of an iceberg, number two is online data base; the judiciary have established online data base for all registered cases from District Court to the Court of Appeal. Information on case filing, submission, progress is accessible through any device from mobile, tablets and computer. If you thought, that is wonderful take a break and read this number three, the Judiciary is providing online services; there are so many services provided online by the judiciary of Tanzania. Automatic case numbering, online follow up of case status, copies of judgment and keep up with court schedule on system calendar. We are not done yet, number four is SMS, e-mail and notification systems; anyone can receive notifications via mobile messages or email on case filings, pre-trial, hearing and pronouncement. As far this article has interpreted, the Judiciary is moving to the modern world of operations which integrates ICT, and for that case, to ensure not only greater and easier access to justice but also it has opened up court businesses It is a great revolution which takes legal and its procedure in the hands of citizens, where everyone knows what is going on in the Judiciary of Tanzania in real time. Anyway, don’t be carried away, number five, did you know that IJA is considered the Judicial Think Tank? The truth is; in the year 2016/17, the Institute trained more than 1000 judicial staff; judges, registrars, magistrates, court administrators, human resources officers, administrative staff , court clerks just to mention some. Part of the training was on the application of ICT in court procedures. The Institute also produced many publications, but this article focused on the IJA Journal, Volume I, Issue No.I of November 2017, one more amazing thing, the journal has seven articles but two of them focuses on ICT. Last but not least, did you know, each division of the High Court is connected to the national fiber optic? For your information, internet is looming in the judiciary corners. And finally, all Judges and majority of the magistrates use computers in writing their judgments hence shortening the time of delivery and supply of copies of judgments