MOI Specialist, Prof Joseph Kahamba told reporters that quick recovery is due to the fact that the surgery involves a very minimal part of the victim’s body, unlike in the past where almost the whole backbone area was oper-ated. He affirmed that apart from quick recovery, the patient also benefits through minimal expenses, between 3 to 5m/- as compared to over 15m/- once one undergoes the surgery outside the country. “The operation comes after we discovered that the patient’s backbone is weak and leads to blockage of the nerves path. In totality, it is the dilapidation of the bones which is normally caused by overweight, change in life style and lack of physical exercises among others,” he said, adding that: The problem can internally attack the person at the age of 28 to 30 years but get diagnosed at between 50 to 60 years of age. They are medically (drug) treated once diagnosed at an early stage and there is no option for the chronic sufferings but only surgery. Leg numbness,serious back pains and fatigue which does not allow the patient to walk long distances are some of the symptoms for backbone complications, according to the specialist, while preventive measures are regular health check-ups, sleeping on stiff mattress, taking balanced diet as well as daily physical exercises. BKL Specialist, Dr Puneet Girdhar commented that the technology was very easy as it needs no blood transfusion as it is the case for other kinds of surgeries. He added that spending almost one and a half days at the hospital, plus quick recovery are among best advantages to the patient compared to the past when one was forced to spend not less than a week in bed. MOI Executive Director, Dr Respicious Boniface revealed that backbone problems dominated the Institute’s clients with exclusion of accident victims. He revealed that experience sharing between local and Indian experts will save costs the government used to incur through sending patients abroad, among other benefits. “This is for the second time after last year’s session. Our experts are getting experience meaning that sending patients with backbone complications abroad is soon to be history,” he commented.