The lab offers solutions in disinfectants, vaccines, nutritional products and technical professional expertise in livestock farming. Equipped with a Diploma in Animal Health, together with the vast experiences he gathered while working with the French lab in Paris and visiting many countries in Africa, Mr Massawe decided to put theory into practice. “Why do farmers always complain of incurring losses? Why are the youth not keen about getting involved in farming and such activities like beekeeping?’’ Mr Massawe asks, saying that scientific methods are a sure way of bailing out the farmers. “Farming is practiced all over the world, even in developed countries. In South Africa for example, apart from mining, agriculture is also a major economic activity. But it is done scientifically,’’ he says and emphasizes on seeking technical advice before starting up a farming or livestock project. Indeed, when he decided to set up a (shamba darasa) in 2015, Mr Massawe’s mission was to create a culture that would compel farmers to abide by the principles of good agriculture and livestock keeping for profitable investment. “If a farmer follows my instructions and demonstration carefully, I can guarantee them success by 100 per cent in every project they decide to establish,’’ says Mr Massawe emphatically, and cautions that failure in many projects results from the ‘business as usual’ attitude. Located at Kwa Mfipa in Kibaha District, Coast Region, the demo farm is indeed a learning centre, ideal for aspiring entrepreneurs, especially the youth and women aiming at self employment. At the entrance to the farm, a visitor is welcomed by a lush garden of spices, ranging from ginger, green pepper, cinnamon, chili, mint, clove, averrhoa carambola ( star fruit), olive, egg plant, green pepper etc. The farm has a beautiful landscape, designed to quench the thirst of clients whose hobby is gardening. According to Mr Massawe, the demo farm is a multipurpose centre, comprising of nine major activities, including poultry management, drip irrigation, aqua culture (fish farming), white duck production and dairy farming. Others on his list are; environmental conservation, bio-gas, bee-keeping and integrated gardening. “I started this farm with a specific reason, especially after travelling extensively and gathering knowledge and experiences. I would like to see change in our local methods of agriculture in which a farmer always makes profit and no loss. I teach my clients to strictly adhere to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) which is an international benchmark of excellence in running a business or project,’’ says Massawe, adding that the SOP aims at avoiding guesswork and fumbling, carefully following scientific instructions to minimize loss and maximize profit. Mr Massawe believes that failure to adhere to SOP and a lack of training before getting started are a snag, preventing farmers from achieving their goals. Another benefit of taking a tour on the farm , according to Mr Massawe is the use of spices and herbal teas to replace those made from tea plants and processed in factory. Apart from their aromatic scent, the spices are also rich in medicinal properties. He suggests borrowing a leaf from the Zanzibari’s saying mainlanders should adapt to spice use in food and beverages and that this should come from own gardens, even if we are living in urban centres. “If your body needs weight loss or detoxification, then all you need is pick some spices or herbs in your garden. It’s easier and cost effective,’’ says Massawe. He gives an example from Morocco saying selling of processed tea is highly restricted. Many people prefer herbs and spices, with mint being their favourite. Many groups and individuals visit the demo farm, including college students and school children, but according to Massawe, women form the largest number of his clients, coming to seek skills on poultry management. Fish farming comes second on the list of activities, followed by biogas and vegetable and fruit farming. “It’s amazing how women come in large numbers. Some of them would just call me on the phone, seeking solutions to poultry management and production. We offer all types of technical knowhow on chickens, including layers, broilers and kuroiler, a free range high breed chicken which is doing very well lately in the market,’’ he says. On the status of the clients who frequent the farm, Mr Massawe says that he gets requests from people of all walks of life, including teachers, university students and telecommunication engineers. “I receive requests from as far as the UK, USA and United Arab Emirates,” says Mr Massawe. Dickson Mathias (25) has assisted Mr Massawe for one year. Dickson, like Massawe is an expert in Animal Health and is also concerned with the day to day ‘local’ farming and livestock keeping methods. “In their daily practices, entrepreneurs start up projects but have no technical know-how or skills to manage them. How does a poultry keeper, for example, who knows nothing about management and production, expect to prosper from his or her investment? Often, farmers complain of chicks dying en mass, pointing an accusing finger at hatcheries and pharmacies for selling them poor breeds, bad animal feed or vet drugs. And after incurring losses, many farmers decide to give up and never try it again,’ says Dickson. The SOP is key to sustaining livelihoods, and this is first and foremost in every activity farmers wishes to get involved in, says Dickson, emphasizing that a day-long session on Mr Massawe’s Demonstration farm is enough for a client to make up their mind on which activity suits them most. He appeals to the youth to form income generating groups and get started, instead of wasting their time looking for employment or doing petty businesses like selling groundnuts and cigarettes at ‘jobless corners.’ Ms Georgina Bundala is a beneficiary of Massawe’s demo farm. A retired civil servant who once served as a District Commissioner, Ms Bundala visited the farm soon after signing off from the government service, at a time when she had very little knowledge of horticulture and poultry. Today, she is a proud owner of a large poultry farm from where she sells eggs, chickens, ducks and turkeys. Ms Bundala also successfully installed a biogas system in her compound, connected to a dairy cow shed. “I’m very busy on my farm. Beside making profits from the projects I have started, I get most of my supplies for my kitchen which includes vegetables, milk, eggs and meat. Soon, I’m planning to construct a fish pond,” says Ms Bundala. On immediate future plans for the demo farm, Mr Massawe, says the farm is indeed a centre for learning but educating the public on entrepreneurship must be a shared responsibility. “I believe that the government can support us in many ways. I would like to expand our service, but the resources are limited. I receive many requests but cannot handle some of them because I need to build a team of supporting staff and even a classroom. We want as many youths as possible to benefit from a single tour on the farm,’’ says Mr Massawe