This explains why land disputes are widespread worldwide. They range from two neighbours quarrelling in the wake of one of them moving a mere one foot into the other’s domain while making preparations for erecting a fence, to two countries literally spitting fire at one another over a small island. In comparative terms, Tanzania’s problem may be milder, but is nonetheless considerably bothersome enough to demand serious attention, from the grassroots to the national level. Land-related problems indeed rank quite high on issues that cause President John Magufuli much anguish. During regional tours, he is often greeted by placards waved by people seeking his attention and action on disputes spinning around that critical Godendowed resource. As a leader who has distinguished himself as a servant of mostly poor, disadvantaged people who are either short-changed by crooks, or are victims of administrative ineptitude, he pursues two main methods. He directs the allocation of parts of undeveloped land initially entrusted to public institutions to some hapless wananchi. Secondly, he issues directives to subordinates but nonetheless high-ranking in the governance structure, such as regional commissioners, to address the disputes seriously. The approach is paying off. Land disputes feature prominently at periodic meet-wananchi sessions at various administrative levels. Starting off by collecting information through interviews, question-and-answer sessions, presentations by presumably conned groups, as well as research, the disputes are set in perspective, to lay the basis for resolution. The Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Mr William Lukuvi, deserves kudos for being among laudable pace-setters, by granting audience to complainants and taking action. He recently announced that the government would give 600 plots to dispossessed people in Dar es Salaam, and that similar missions would be undertaken elsewhere, zero land disputes being the ultimate goal. On the broader level are land conflicts between peasants and herders which the government, alongside community leaders and NGOs, are spiritedly striving to resolve. The fire of those initiatives, as it were, should be kept burning, but a coolheaded approach is critical, to keep flaring tempers in check. For conflicts have led to deaths, injuries, disrupted livelihoods, and mutual suspicion-oriented scenarios amongst sections of community members. These must be curbed, as they are inimical to the idealistic love-peace-harmony ‘triangular’ Tanzania that we so proudly orchestrate and must consolidate .