Before continuing with profit pinpointing, professionals do briefly profile the insects that butterflies are of two typesthose with four-framed wings and those with two wings. The former is the group which flies in the day-light (almost twelve hours) and the latter flies not more than four hours, from around 6:00 am. It is because the two wingbutterflies have poor sighting which denies them from either flying during bright-light or in total black light. Again, members of this group are single colored compared to their counterparts which are naturally decorated with several colours. The colored ones therefore play so many roles, including serving as tourist attraction; says senior lecturer at the main Campus of Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA), Department of Crop Science and Agriculture, Dr Gration Rwegasira. “The way mixed colors shine, do attracts a lot. In Europe, butterfly traders make money though they also import butterflies from Africa because they lack enough natural forests to accommodate the insects,” said the don. Butterflies are normally exported at infancy or pupae stage; according to Dr Rwegasira, adding that Tanzania is still in a good position to run the business following abundance of natural forests. Available forests are enough to accommodate butterflies for both local uses and external trading and that is where foreign currency earning comes, said Dr Rwegasira; reiterating the call to the government over resumption of Biodiversity species exportation. He was speaking during the ‘Digitization of Bio-informatics’ workshop in Dar es Salaam recently organized by the National Museum of Tanzania (NMT). In Europe, the butterflies have been supporting pollination, exhibitions and educational/ studies activities. Farmers have to hire butterflies from traders for pollination tasks. According to Dr Rwegasira, demand in Europe is high and endless after discovering the benefits. Tanzania therefore should grab the opportunity given that a butterfly life span is too short-not more than two months. It means the market is open for Tanzania (in Europe) every after a- two month period. Butterflies are also to overcome unemployment challenge through tourist ‘influx’ to Tanzania. At the same time, keepers have to preserve natural forests at the first hand with regard that no forests, no butterflies. In that case the government will reduce if not permanently cut the costs it usually incurs on forests preservation activities. Butterflies keepers have to replace the on-going human destructive activities in forests, mostly charcoal and timber business. Again, butterflies are a sign of life given that they settle neither in dry nor polluted areas. They usually settle around clean water and cool weather, said the Don. Despite their short life span, he said, butterflies have high fertility rate, 400-500 eggs per butterfly but when kept in special sites. Almost all eggs do get hatched. It is because at special sites, the insects are well fed and let their eggs become most fertile. Those in not well-organized areas do lay not more that 200 and only 5-7 do get hatched; the Don further stated. High fertility rate is directly associated with nourishment of Agriculture sector when the available insects are used on pollination activities. Farm outputs have to double, hence, food security plus availability of abundant raw materials to support industrialisation drive, said Dr Rwegasira. He revealed that findings show that industrialised farm pesticides have seriously killed natural pollination methods which (pollination) doubles farm outputs. Unfortunately, he said, only Tanga-based Amani Center keeps the insects at very minimal amount despite all those benefits available from small capital one has to invest. Feasibility studies have been done in Kagera and Rukwa regions’ forests but not yet materialised. Having recognized butterflies benefits, the American- Based JRS Biodiversity Foundation runs the project named “Assessment of Lepidoptera Species Diversity Data in East Africa”; aimed at: Building capacity on best practices in collection of voucher specimens, digitalisation, publishing and data sharing focusing on hawk-moths, skippers and swallow-tail types of butterflies in the Eastern Arch Mountains forests (Tanzania) and Mabila (in Uganda). It is a three-year project from January last year, with sponsorship of $246,000 according to the NMT Project Coordinator, Ms Adelaide Sallema; reiterating that flowering plants largely depend on insect pollinators. Hawk-moths (big) and skippers (small) butterflies, specialty named ‘Lepidoptera’ provide vital ecosystem services as pollinators of both crops and wild flora, thus, leading to increased and quality yields, hence, fostering food security.