The revelation was made yesterday in Dar es Salaam by Commissioner of Minerals, Mr Shukrani Manya, adding that the institutions would be equipped and act as demonstration centres, where various challenges facing the miners in the industry would be addressed. “The aim is to equip Small Scale Miners with the best processing technologies and carry out demonstration activities … to model with the environment and sound processing techniques,” he noted. He pointed out that the institutions among others would address challenges such as identification of mining potential areas and offer mining skills in the industry. While speaking in the city during the 7th Canada-Tanzania Corporate Social Responsibility Forum, organised by the Tanzania Chamber of Mines and the High Commission of Canada, Mr Manya further said the artisanal and small scale-miners often face various challenges which the authority can address. He cited the challenges as lack of financial capital, low level of technological knowhow, scarce equipment and lack of related safety gears in the industry. The Commissioner pointed out that the forum was also aimed at reviewing the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) practices of extraction mining companies in the country operating from abroad, mostly on mining Oil and Gas. Mr Manya further said the Ministry of Energy and Minerals understands that more interventions are required to improve the youth’s participation in the mining sector, adding that that can further be exploited on focusing well on CSR programmes, which have several opening opportunities for the youth in the local communities. He noted that the government was working on several initiatives including the Demonstrations Centres, Small Grants’ programmes and Multi-Stakeholder Partnership initiative for the sake of the miners and the country. Opening the forum, High Commissioner of Canada to Tanzania, Ian Myles said his country through Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) would continue to play an important role in ensuring that Tanzanian youth, have access to right skills which are applicable in the job market and entrepreneurship. He said the participation of the youth in the industry has a meaning in the nation’s development and further called upon more for their support especially in building their capacity to deliver effectively. The envoy cited training skills and more support in economic programmes and opportunities for the youth especially in the mining, oil and gas industries as well as in the tourism sectors. In another development, Mr Myles expressed concern for his country’s companies in Tanzania to go beyond minimum legal compliance and integrate CSRs’ best practices in their management structures, right to the level of individual projects or sites locally. “I think we can all agree that responsible corporate behaviour by companies operating internationally, should not only enhance their chances for business success, but can also contribute to better outcomes for vulnerable populations for the youth and women in the extractive sector,” he said.