MNH now becomes the first public hospital in Tanzania to use the new high-tech technology which marks a major breakthrough for patients seeking radiology services at the country’s leading medical facility. In medical parlance, Voice recognition, which is alternately known as speech recognition, is a method that is perceived to reduce overhead expenses, by reducing or eliminating transcription services and improving care by reducing report turnaround times incurred by transcription backlogs. According to the Assistant Professor of Radiology at the UK’ Yale School of Medicine, Frank Minja, medical speech recognition software solution will allow medical professionals From PIUS RUGONZIBWA in Ukerewe THE report on illegal fishing has been submitted with shocking findings of massive uses of illegal fishing gears. The report claims that over 70 per cent of all fishermen in the country use illegal gears, some influential public figures in the local governments, legislators and leaders of political parties behind the crime. Revealing the details of the report before the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa here yesterday, the Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Mr Luhaga Mpina said the crackdown against illegal fishing had also unveiled shocking statistics of fish and related products being smuggled to neighbouring countries, subjecting the nation to massive economic losses. He said in 2017 alone over four million kilogrammes of fish worth billions of shillings were smuggled to Malawi through certain routes in the southern part of the country while over 100,000 kilogrammes were smuggled weekly to Uganda through Bukoba route. “The operation is going on and will not end until the last gang of illegal fishermento utilise back-end speech technology without disruption in work flow. The technology is constantly learning speech behaviour in the background while physicians resume their normal dictation patterns. “There has been a debate on whether this technology can work properly in Tanzania where doctors have several accents due to their mother tongue influences, but for the past two days since we started using the new technology, we have realised that voice recognition is working properly,’’ he said. With the new technology, Tanzanian medical professionals are able to dictate into their computers, in the normal course of speaking and have the speech engine recognise what the clinician wants, and then apply the commands or structured words, respectively, to obtain a radiology report for a patient. The speech engine is capable of showing the cardiology report template occupied with the name of the patient and other essential, demographic data. By dictating the cardiology report narrative, the computer recognises the narrative context and intent and condenses a complete, correct, and structured data-based document. “This allows medical professionals to document patient clinical information more efficiently and clearly,’’ said Assistant Prof Minja. Medical dictation reports help care givers to expedite the admissions and discharge processes. According to MNH Head of Radiology Department, Dr Flora Lwakatare, the department receives an average of between 200 and 300 patients per day. “This technology will help us in expediting service delivery because we do not have enough physicians in our department,’’ she said, pointing out that the new technology will enable MNH offer services to many people, alongside reducing the time for patients to be given their radiology reports. Initially, before the onset of the new technology, according to the Director of Clinical Services at MNH, Dr Praxeda Ogweyo, after diagnostic imaging, radiologists sent their reports to their secretaries for typing, patients being compelled to wait until doctors received typed reports before issuing the final reports to the patients. “This took a lot of time and we were receiving several complaints from patients who waited for many hours before receiving the radiology reports,’’ said Dr Ogweyo.