Senior State Attorney Estazia Wilson told Resident Magistrate Godfrey Mwambapa at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday when the case came for mention, that the file was taken to the DPP for other legal procedures after completion of investigations. “The case file is still with the DPP. Under such a situation, we pray for another mention date to allow him to go through the file,” the prosecutor requested. The magistrate granted the request and adjourned the trial to February 27, for another mention. Lawyers say that three things could happen when the prosecution’s case file is taken to the DPP. He may draw new charges for the prosecution of accused persons depending on the evidence presented to him. Furthermore, the DPP could return the case file to the investigative machinery with directives of carrying out further investigations on some aspects or enter nolle prosequi certificate in favour of the accused persons if the evidence brought before him was insufficient to mount their prosecution. Nolle prosequi is a legal term or phrase meaning ‘be unwilling to pursue’, a phrase amounting to ‘do not prosecute’ used in many common law criminal prosecution contexts to describe a prosecutor’s decision to voluntarily discontinue criminal charges either before trial or verdict. In the trial, Kalugendo, who is the Director of the Tanzania Sorting Company (TANSORT) and Rweyemamu, the government diamond valuer, allegedly committed the offence on diverse dates between August 25 and 31, 2017, at different places in Dar es Salaam and Shinyanga regions. It is alleged that, by their wilful acts, being government diamond valuers and employees of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, jointly and together, the two accused persons caused the government of United Republic of Tanzania to suffer a pecuniary loss of 1,118,291.43 US dollars, which is 2,486,397,982/54. The arraignment of the duo comes after a Parliamentary Select Committee on diamonds presented its report to National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai, revealing gross irregularities in the supervision and regulation of the 100 billion US dollar business. According to the report, while the Ministry of Energy and Minerals documents show that the country had extracted diamond minerals weighing 1.47 million tones, the statement is contradicted by the report from the Tanzania Mineral Audit Agency (TMAA) which recorded 1.51 million tonnes. The minerals were valued at 367.3million US dollars, against 374.6million US dollars. Despite the value of the minerals, Tanzania is the only country in Africa trading diamond at a low price of around 300 US dollar per carat compared to Botswana that trades the same at an average of 1900 US dollars. Select Committee Chairman, Mr Mussa Zungu, revealed when presenting the report that the committee had also found the record regarding royalties between 2007 and 2016