Let alone the great number of university students graduating in relation to the ability of employing them being a great threat, the fact is that a big number of these graduate students do not have the necessary skills required by the employees. There is a big skills mismatch to these individuals. While some blame the format of education in the country, others think that it is the student’s obligation to close this gap because despite the problem, there are still few individuals who manage to match the skills needed by the employees. So what really makes them different? Are they special or just hard working? According to the Resident Coordinator of the United Nations, Alvaro Rodriguez, Skills mismatch refers to the building of skills that are not priorities for a society or ignoring the teaching and learning of skills that a society needs. He demonstrates an example of Tanzania in it’s movement toward industrialization where he says that people need skills related to industrial development in general but it may not have an education system that is providing learning in these areas. He said that “It is very important that educational institutions are aware of the labor market and the evolution of the economy, for example as the economy changes from an agricultural economy to a more industrial economy” We need a stronger link between labor market analysis and the types of educational; curriculum that the country has, he added. In another perspective, a university student from University of Dar es Salaam, John Wackenzo told Daily News that to him, skills mismatch is the gap between what necessary skills a person should have and what they actually perceive they have, which does not compile with the necessary skills an individual should have either in career or life skills. John continued that, skills mismatch may be caused by lack of cohesive trainings, ignorance and negligence, time diversions and socio-economic barriers. He said “Youth should be given matching and skills training on soft skills, entrepreneur education and objectiveness as these are the most significant base for employability and innovation plus many students are lacking these qualities from primary to higher learning institutions. Although he blamed the students for not being on the lookout by volunteering into different organizations and platforms, he also blamed the education system where he said that he education system in the country does not match practical skills set for individuals such that higher learning institute students do particulate to struggle in working environments, not only that but prior the 1995 education system which requests entrepreneurial education to be a profound base fails with that aspect as entrepreneurship has been taught on theoretical grounds rather than a practical field to boost up material and non material workouts. In contrast to his opinion, one of the Elderly civilians identified as Katua commented that both individuals and the education system are to blamed for the problem of skills mismatch to the youths. He said that “Individuals are not focused from the beginning while education provided is too general for almost more than 13 years of attending school”. The education does not provide readymade students who can fit in well in the employment sector. This has also been supported by the youth CEO of Javis International Group and one among the Forbes 30 under 30 youths, Harun Elias who told Daily News that the education system in the country teaches the students to be employees of organizations; it is not open to ensure that these students could think outside the box. It is focused on past issues unlike other developed countries who focus on the current issues. On the other hand, individuals don't take time learn beyond what is taught in the classroom, they don’t research nor use their libraries to expand their knowledge. They become good theoretically but are simply not competent when it comes to the practicality of what they have learnt in class” There might be many problems that cause this problem of skills mismatch to the youths in the country but just like how everything has a solution, so does this current problem. Among the solutions for this problem is educating individuals as well as parents. This education should also be adopted from other developed countries as the world keeps changing and so should our education system. Students should also be given the freedom to express their creativity rather than just following up on what the teachers say, added Harun. In addition, Alvaro told Daily News that there are opportunities such as that of One UN Tanzania that helps a number of institutions to have learning programmes for the kind of skills that are required as Tanzania’s economy is changing. These skills are in new agricultural practices, new vocational skills related to solar power, new approaches to certification of educational standards that build entrepreneurship skills. Nevertheless, John says that for the mismatch to be solved, a base for preparing students in practical rather than theoretical grounds should be established. The education system should be made to embed students to be creative in their fields in a way such that it can guide them to employ themselves rather than be employed. He added that “me being a part of organizations such as AISEC has helped me engage in working and volunteering opportunities on aspects that can make sure I match my skills, becomes self aware, solve problems while also empowering others to do the same. If the youth grasp these kinds of opportunities, we will be able to increase our skills and our creativity”. Moreover, Katua advised that the education provided to students should be focused. That is it should be provided specifically whether it is on technical, agricultural sector and so on, just like it was in the Nyerere regime.