The Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu challenged the women to be confident and innovative, saying it’s a key requisites to penetrate in the lucrative sector. “This is one of the most important sectors of economy. “It has a lot of opportunities to turn one’s life for better if fully utilised,” Ms Mwalimu said in a message read on her behalf by the Ministry’s Director of Children, Ms Margaret Mussai over the weekend. The minister speech was read at a meeting ‘Women in Tourism 2018’ organised by the Hotels Association of Tanzania (HAT) in collaboration with the Association of Women in Tourism Tanzania (AWOTTA). The minister said women stand a better chance to contribute dearly in the sector and national economy. “It is my hope that the deliberations accrued from this meeting will be used to encourage and promote more women to step up in tourism as an important sector having many business opportunities to transform lives,” she stressed. She commended the event organisers and sponsors, saying the participation was a really testimony that women could work at any environment and deliver accordingly. “With this participation, I am convinced…if we are given a chance we can bring changes,” she said. Earlier, the Managing Director of Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB), Ms Devota Mdachi thanked the organisers, HAT and Asilia. “TTB takes all the challenges addressed here and will work on them seriously,” Ms Mdachi said. She said it was an undeniable fact that women participation in tourism in recent years was quite impressive comparing to the past. She called on them to leave no stone unturned in tourism sector . The meeting gave the participants a splendid opportunity to discuss the role of women in society and participation of women in the labour market. The Founder and Director of Asilia Company owning the Dunia Camp, Ms Jane Ngwatu said the camp employed more females since they were the most applicants for the job. “We opened this camp while fearing the security of these ladies. But as days go by, the fear disappeared,” Ms Ngwatu said. The historic symposium was coordinated by HAT and sponsored by Tanzania National Parks Authority (TANAPA), Tanzania Tourist Baord (TTB), AWOTTA, Coastal Aviation, Irboru Safari Lodge, Serena Hotel, Sopa Lodge, Nomad Tanzania, Dunia Camp Serengeti, Kilifair, Ngorongoro Conservation Authority, Ang’ata, Seronera Wildlife lodge and Abercrombie