This will be the first time for Tanzania to host such a lucrative football competition and the prospects of making it remain in the land are bigger than ever before. The good thing is that Serengeti Boys are not strangers in this tournament as they amicably competed in the last year’s edition of U-17 AYC that was held in Gabon. Head of Youth Football Development Kim Poulsen has always been positive about the current squad forming Serengeti Boys, saying that they have potential to seize the upcoming show and make it big in the continental football. Poulsen, who steered the former Serengeti Boys team to the AYC finals in Gabon, said the incumbent players make him and the entire technical bench have difficult time when it comes to selecting best players from the rest. He (Poulsen) conceded that the squad is now full of creative young stars, a situation he termed essential during the approaching tournament and he clearly assured the public that this time around, Serengeti Boys will grab the silverware. It was also good to listen to the players who would be on the frontline zone fighting for their territory throughout the competition and finding out how they visualize the tournament. Amiri Njeru who trade as Serengeti Boys center-back said their main aim as a team is to win the junior championship and leave a legacy on the world face that Tanzania can do it. He said the level of training sessions they have been subjected to ahead of the thrilling competition gives them courage to excel for the benefit of the whole nation. However, Njeru narrated that in order for them to realize the dream, it is vital to play as many friendly games as possible just like the way their predecessors did en-route to Gabon. Furthermore, Njeru who locally admires Young Africans defender, Kelvin Yondani requested government and other football development partners to give them all the necessary support they need so as to do well in the games. Also, Saudi Abdallah (midfielder) said time he has always dreaming about has come hence he will utilize it fully. He added that staging the contest alone is a big boost towards making the team win the competition. Additionally, Abdallah said they will play with confidence and determination knowing that they have big debt to pay to the country. The former Serengeti Boys dream to make it into the 2017 AYC finals was cut short following a scoreless draw by reigning champions Mali in a vital quarter final match that the country’s lads had to win at all cost to cruise into the semis. However, out of three games Serengeti Boys played, they won a single encounter 2-1 against Angola after losing 1-0 to Niger in their debut match. Mali emerged overall champions thanks to a 1-0 victory over second placed Ghana. Guinea scooped the third slot while Niger finished fourth