Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa spoke of the government’s plan yesterday in Kwimba District, Mwanza Region, during which he also challenged farmers to produce quality cotton to attract good prices. According to the Prime Minister, the decision to come up with indicative prices for the ‘white gold’ would help deal with sabotage that farmers have been facing for years. He said that by February 21, the indicative prices will have been announced. The PM also granted permission to farmers to freely sell cotton to buy-ers they wished, getting rid of conmen, middlemen and agents who have, for years, been exploiting them. It would be recalled that about a month ago, the Premier banned cotton contract farming system after proving to be exploitative on the side of farmers in the country. Meanwhile, Mr Majaliwa yesterday declared zero tolerance on contractors who implement shoddy jobs for water projects in local government authorities. During the tour of Kwimba District in Mwanza Region, the Prime Minister ordered termination of a contract involving a contractor undertaking a water project worth billions of shillings in thedistrict. The termination order is the second in a row since he began the tour of Mwanza Region on Thursday. On Thursday, the Prime Minister was forced to instruct the Mwanza Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr John Mongela, to communicate with the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) so that he could release the files involving two contractors who are to appear before the court for charges levelled against them. The two Luneco Investment and MEMO Co. Limited are accused of causing losses of more than 3bn/- for implementing water projects that are below standard for Lumeya-Nyakalilo-Bukokwa and Lushili-Nyakasangwa- Igwanzozu villages respectively, all based in Buchosa District Council. Another contractor PET Cooperation and the project consultant for Lumenya- Kalebezo-Nyehunge water project were arraigned before the court last week for causing another loss of 1.5bn/- through substandard work making a total loss for all three projects to reach 4.74bn/-. Yet in Kwimba District yesterday, the same story was repeated when the PM was informed of at least other three water projects worth over 3bn/- that raised questions, prompting the PM to order termination of a contract for one of the contractors whose name was not immediately obtained, pending legal action. “I have come to realise that Kwimba District is not making good use of public money. Terminate the contract while another capable contractor is being sought to continue with the project,” said the Premier. He said gone are the days when corrupt people and day robbers used to embezzle public resources, asking for all civil servants in the district to be accountable to the people. On social services, Mr Majaliwa said the government was committed to bring true development, citing billions of shillings availed for various programmes in Kwimba District such as 1.1bn/- for water projects, 2.2bn/- and 1.7bn/- for primary and secondary education, respectively. Earlier, Member of Parliament (MP) for Kwimba, Mr Sharif Hilal Mansour, asked for tougher action against private contractors undertaking water projects and proposed that they work under the direct supervision of the government water engineers to ensure quality and value for money. “It appears many private water contractors are not capable and dishonest, no wonder they lay fake pipes causing massive losses that could otherwise beavoided,” said the MP. In another development, Mr Mansour told the Prime Minister he had failed to obtain a building permit for the construction of a Vocational Training Institute in the district until he pays 38m/- for the title deed.