Mzee Kingunge (pictured) died at the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) where he has been admitted for over a month, after he was attacked by his dogs at his home on December 22, 2017. According to a statement, Kingunge died yesterday morning at around 4.30am while undergoing treatment. Dr Magufuli said that the nation has lost an important person whose contribution in the fight for the country’s independence and even after independence will be felt and remembered. The press statement quoted President Magufuli as saying, the nation has lost a person who participated fully in fighting for independence and was a loyal servant of the then Tanganyika African National Union (TANU) and later the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM). He said Mr Kingunge has left a rich legacy that will be remembered and cherished for many years to come. Apart from serving the party, the fallen veteran politician held various positions in government at advisory and ministerial levels. “Mzee Kingunge has contributed a lot to this nation. We will never forget what he did for thiscountry. We will remember his good deeds and specifically, his fight for the interests of the nation, particularly in maintaining peace and unity,” he said. He extended his condolences to the Kingunge family, CCM members, friends and anyone who has been touched by the demise of the politician. Meanwhile, Speaker of the National Assembly, Mr Job Ndugai, has sent his condolences to the family and Tanzanians at large. The chairman of the burial committee, Mr Omari Kimbau, said Mzee Kingunge will be buried on Monday at Kinondoni Cemetery. “The body of our beloved Mzee Kingunge will be laid to rest on Monday at 3pm,” he said. He added that the family has received President Magufuli’s condolences and that they were grateful to the prayers and support from all Tanzanians during this difficult moment. “We are proceeding well with arrangements for the burial of our beloved father. The family appreciates the support and condolences from various people including the Head of State, who has sent his condolences in the morning today (yesterday),” said Mr Kimbau. The family spokesman, Ambassador Ali Mchumo said the late Kingunge will be buried close to his wife who died few weeks ago. He said the family and the burial committee will give more information on the burial arrangements to the mourners later. “We will keep updating the public on the matter, other procedures on his burial will be announced later,” said Ambassador Mchumo. Mzee Kingunge was born in 1930. He is regarded as one of the comrades who endured sacrifices for the independence of Tanganyika. Kingunge was an active member and a leader in TANU, the political party which fought and gained independence of Tanganyika on December 9, 1961. He was among the key figures on the process of joining TANU and Afro Shiraz Party (ASP) of Zanzibar to found CCM on February 5, 1977.