Its member states have made great strides on regional integration and making the EAC as the most ambitious of all regional economic communities (RECs) in Africa. According to a report on regional integration by the African Development Bank, the EAC is top on the list of RECs in Africa. While there is no doubt that the drive to regional integration has had twists and turns, getting all done from customs union, in force since 2005, to common market in 2010, has not been a mean feat. It is not surprising that the EAC is considered a strong pillar as Africa moves towards a single market -- through linking the EAC, COMESA, and SADC into a single free-trade zone -- from Cape-to-Cairo. It is against that backdrop we commend senior government officers from Tanzania and Kenya for proactive measures to stave off a brewing trade war between the two countries at a meeting in Mombasa last week. The officials who included, Permanent secretary in the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Prof Elisante Ole Gabriel, that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East Africa Cooperation, Prof Adolf Mkenda directed regulatory authorities from both sides to play a more proactive role in preventing and settling disputes between the two countries. They agreed that regulatory institutions should be communicating regularly to sort out issues immediately as they occur and meetings of permanent or principal secretaries for ministries responsible for trade and those with direct effect to trading will be held on a quarterly basis. Other key issues discussed during the meeting were how to resolve multiple charges on levies, lack of preferential treatment, delays at border points and the need for standardised inspection fees. We see this as very important decisions on efforts to promote integration in the region. These are some of the challenges which have hindered East Africans to optimize the potential of the intra-regional trade to promote growth and development. It should be noted that Kenya and Tanzania account for over 70 per cent of the total economy of the EAC region. Trade between the two countries constitute the largest share of regional trade and making them economic backbone of the common market. It was therefore important that the two countries came up with measures for effective and timely implementation of strategies to further promote regional integration through enhanced intra-regional trade