A variety of skin disorders often crop up associated with ugliness. It is now known that chemical bleaching can lead to serious skin and health conditions which include: permanent bleaching, thinning of the skin and uneven colour loss. This leads to an ugly blotchy appearance, redness and intense irritation. Other nasty consequences include dark grey spots, skin cancer, acne, increase in appetite and weight gain, osteoporosis, neurological and kidney damage due to high level of mercury used in the creams. Also in this frightening lineup are psychiatric disorders, asthma, liver damage and severe birth defects in children born to mothers who abuse certain chemicals. Indeed, it has come to light that some unwitting women are now using medical creams and ointments. These are prescribed in health facilities for treatment of eczema and other skin disorders. But unwitting women use them to lighten their skins. Of course a few men, especially artistes, engage in this diabolical racket. This practice not only foolhardy but also highly dangerous. Tanzania Foods and Drugs Regulatory Authority (TFDA) says that while it working hard to take off the shelves and destroy banned cosmetics some women now use medical skin creams and ointments to bleach their skins. A few years ago the government slammed a ban on counterfeit soaps, skin creams, ointments and other products that contain deadly intoxicants such as steroids, chloroforms, mercury, sulphur, hydroquinone and other harmful chemicals. The manufacturers of these mostly counterfeit, highly dangerous creams have of late been a shade cleverer by choosing not to print the list of active ingredients on packages containing the dangerous creams and ointments. But even worse, some women have been going to chemist shops, pharmacies and hospitals to buy permitted and legally imported skin treating products which they apply on their skins without competent medical advice. This is a dangerous habit, to say the very least. Consequently, there is a proliferation of skin and liver cancers among some of the most notorious abusers of chemicals. The disaster has even seen some women missing their menstrual periods. Others have given birth to mentally retarded babies. Yes, this is the catastrophe some of our women have courted unwittingly. Meanwhile, it is important to mention here that importers of fake, goods are notorious evaders of taxes who also ruin national economy. Now, a closer look at the harm wrought by skin bleaching might shock even the coldest hearts. In fact, in a failed bid to enhance their skin beauty, many women have ended up falling victim of several diseases that only leave their skin worse and even jeopardise their lives. Arguably, the beauty and cosmetic industry has enjoyed unprecedented attention and patronage in recent times to the extent that a shocking statistic revealed that about 75% of African women make use of one skin-lightening product or the other. Unfortunately, some of these products contain harmful chemicals like hydroquinone which, although notable for its rapid bleaching abilities has also been implicated in organ damage as well as skin cancer. In the end, it does more harm than good when abused or used against the doctor’s prescription. No wonder the use of hydroquinone in skin lighteners has been banned across Europe and several other countries including Australia and Japan. Hydroquinone- and mercurycontaining skin products work by blocking melanin production by the basal layer of the epidermis of the skin. Since melanin is the pigment responsible for the dark colour of the skin, such skin becomes lighter. With prolonged use, however, these chemicals react with ultraviolet rays, become oxidized and then cause unsightly pigmentations on the skin. Furthermore, hydroquinone may disrupt the collagen fibres which constitute the connective tissue of the skin and the outcome is a spotty, wrinkled skin. It is a well-known fact that the melanin pigment of the black skin protects against the harmful carcinogenic effects of ultraviolet radiation from the sun and this explains why black people have a lower risk of skin cancer than the whites. However, individuals that bleach their black skin colour have lost the privilege of this protection and consequently expose themselves to skin cancer. In addition, the mercury content of many bleaching creams has also been shown to be carcinogenic. It is also a well-known fact that many of the available skin lighteners contain steroids, the prolonged use of which hampers skin health and leads to skin atrophy, a condition in which skin thickness is appreciably reduced. Such light-skinned individuals are more prone to skin injuries such as bruises, abrasions and cuts. Striae (abnormal streaks or lines) are often noticed on bleached skin and, in fact, they are not good to look at! Continued use of those skinlightening creams may not be in the best interest of your internal organs especially your kidneys, liver and brain. For instance, heavy metals including mercury are important causes of kidney injury and failure. In large doses, the liver and brain may not be spared as well. There is such a condition as mercury intoxication or poisoning. It can result from mercury inhalation, ingestion, injection or absorption through the skin. The bad news is that if your bleaching cream contains high levels of mercury, you are setting yourself up for mercury poisoning. More unfortunate is the fact that mercury poisoning has some fatal effects on the brain that are quite difficult to reverse such as tremors, ataxia (loss of balance or coordination), dysarthria (inability to articulate words) and numbness or tingling sensation on the extremities. In conclusion, it is in recognition of these unpleasant problems that the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends that everyone be happy with the colour of their skin. I am proud to be black. A word is enough for the wise! Most skin bleaching agents are smuggled into the country by notorious counterfeiters. These miscreants ruin both people’s health and national economy. It has been estimated that the government loses between 540bn/- and 900bn/- per year due to tax evasion. Bad goods are not confined to fake cosmetics. In this country the contraband includes industrial equipment and raw materials; agriculture inputs. Counterfeit motor vehicle spare parts include tyres, batteries, bearings, tubes, engine parts and others. Fake electronic equipment and appliances include television sets, radio sets, cassette recorder sets, computers, wire cables, pirated music and so on. Also in the black list are fake cosmetics, detergents creams, lotions and toothpastes. Although Tanzania had the Merchandise Act that was unveiled in 1963, it never came into force until 2005 and remains weak. The problem of counterfeiting is reinforced by weak legislation. Tanzania has a highly porous border that has little surveillance. Corruption is endemic. The problem with this aspect is that no reliable data can be gathered to determine the extent of corruption that allows the flourishing of trade in both counterfeit and substandard goods. In Tanzania, the issue of rampant counterfeits and substandard goods is a recent phenomenon. People have started to question whether Tanzania has been turned into a dumping ground for substandard goods or counterfeits and want to know what is being done to arrest the situation. The main entry points for fake goods on the Mainland are Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Mbeya, Kilimanjaro, Tanga and Mwanza. In Zanzibar, counterfeit and substandard goods filter in through Pemba and Zanzibar ports and the largely porous seashore approach. Counterfeit products originate mainly from Asian countries including China, India, United Arab Emirates (Dubai), Indonesia, Taiwan, Singapore, Pakistan, Hong Kong, South Korea, Bahrain, Malaysia, Burma and Thailand. Chile, a South American country, also harbours notorious counterfeiters. There are some African countries also in the list. They include Kenya, South Africa, Mozambique, Malawi, Zambia and surprisingly, Tanzania. Some products that are manufactured in Tanzania are imitated overseas. Tanzanian high quality khangas, for example, have cheap copies coming in from India. Tanzania has a highly porous border that has little surveillance. Apart from Tanga harbour, Horohoro, Sirari, Mtukula and Tunduma border that have onsite regulatory officials, the Tanga coastal line (about 60 kilometers long) has 17 landing sites that handle mostly unofficially declared small cargo. Some of the cargo may be counterfeits and substandard. There are many other landing sites along the Indian Ocean that cater for small cargo. They include Kisiju (Coast region), Boko (Dar es Salaam) and Bagamoyo