But it can be simply noted that small teams took their matches as war and they fought it bravery to ensure they are not underdogs. At the best 16 stage, five Premier League teams have been kicked out, most notable being Mbeya City who were defeated by Ihefu, Simba who were kicked out by Green Warriors while Mwadui, Ruvu Shooting, Kagera Sugar all made painful exit after they were beaten by the lower graded sides. It was hard to believe that Ihefu, a team consisting a big number of village boys could hold Yanga who feature a big number of international class players. The Dar es Salaam giants Yanga narrowly escaped elimination after equalising in the injury time before securing a 4-3 win on spotkick. Mtibwa Sugar and Njombe Mji also sailed to the last 16 stage in the matches held yesterday in Lindi and Njombe, but they had to sweat profusely to win against the lower graded opponents. Mtibwa Sugar, who are among the Premier League giants, defeated the Second Division League’s Majimaji Rangers 2-1 in a fiercely fought encounter at Ilulu Stadium in Lindi, as Njombe had to rely on shooting and goalkeeping skills to beat Rhino Rangers 6-3 on penalty shootout after a 2-2 draw in normal time. Dodoma FC who play in the First Division League kicked out Premier League regular, Mwadui by beating them 2-1 at their Mwadui home Complex in Shinyanga. First Divison’s Kiluvya United defeated Premier league side, Ruvu Shooting while Singida United had to sweat profusely to beat Green Warriors on penalty shootouts. Apart from seeing giants being knocked out the race by the lower division sides from the First Division (FDL) and Second Division (SDL) leagues, ASFC has been very tough and highly competitive. Ndanda FC also struggled against Biashara United from Mara after being held to a 1-1 draw at their home ground at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara, before earning a 4-2 victory on penalties. There are two big lessons in all the unpredictable results; first is fighting spirit and team organisation that both helped lower divisions teams to overcome big teams’ threats. But, as well, the results should be used by big teams to seek hidden talents from the lower division sides before seeking services of the expensive players from foreign countries.