Opening a two day workshop for stakeholders dealing with management and implementation of court broking and processes in Dar es Salaam, Dr Wambali said that they were concerned over some brokers who abuse their authorities, resulting in tarnishing the good image of the Judiciary. He pointed out that it was well known to all that court brokers and process servers have the noble duty of ensuring execution of judgments given by courts is done in accordance with available rules and procedures. “Therefore, the execution process of judgments must be served by people with, not only honesty and high moral values, but also with skills, scope and experience in laws and rules relating to servicing, hearing of cases and execution of decrees,” he said. The principal judge said that it was true in 1997 there was enactment of appointment, remunerations and disciplinary rules for court brokers and many of them applied such rules in conducting their duties. However, he said, no training has been conducted since then, save for an emergency one conducted in 2003. “This situation resulted in a lot of complaints from both parties to cases and the general public on weaknesses observed, including procedural violations and lack of moral integrity in the implementation of duties for court brokers,” he noted. Dr Wambali observed that though some court brokers had appeared before the Ethical and Appointment Committee for assessment of qualifications, understanding and abilities in carrying out their duties, most of them did not have enough knowledge on rules governing the conduct of their duties. “It is because of that the Court Brokers and Process Servers (Appointment Remuneration and Disciplinary Rules of 2017) were enacted and printed on September 22, 2017. This rules repealed the rules of 1997. I hope that this law will resolve many challenges,” he said. During the workshop coorganised by the Institute of Judicial Administration Lushoto and the Judiciary of Tanzania in Dar es Salaam, it brought together stakeholders to discuss the Draft Curriculum to be used for training of Court Brokers and Process Servers and the 2017 new rules. One of the participants to the workshop, Mr Mustafa Nyumbamkali admitted that indeed there were some challenges court brokers were facing in the course of performing their duties, but called on amendments of available rules to make sure court orders given are respected. “It is not true that court brokers are the only problem here, but a point has reached where court orders are not respected. We request the Principal Judge and Chief Justice to make best rules. Still the current rules have some difficulties which need to be reviewed to make the court receives its respect,” he said. He pointed out that the duty of ensuring execution of judgment is carried out was so challenging especially in civil matters, where no one easily accepts to be thrown out of their house like an animal or have their house broken.