The region, which surrounds Dar es Salaam, has some 70 operating industries where two-third of them are located in Mkuranga District and 21 are in various stages of construction. Bank of Tanzania’s South Eastern Zone Economic Performance Report For The Year Ending June 2017 shows there were 21 large and medium scale industries expected to be completed soon. The report shows 10 of the new industries are constructed in Bagamoyo District and are expected to produce cement, steel, pharmaceuticals, industrial gas and escalators and elevators. The Kamal Group is erecting six out of 10 plants in Bagamoyo District. Other investors are Binani Cement, Zinga Pharmaceutical, Hauteng Metallurgical and Motisun Group. Kibaha District follows Bagamoyo closely with eight new plants under construction which will produce a number of products including bus and truck body building, steel, pharmaceutical and soap products. Mkuranga is third on the list with three new factories that will make steel products, ceramic and electricity generation using natural gas. Chalinze is the last on the list with two plants for ceramics and juice production. However, Mkuranga looks to be darling of investors as there are already 44 medium and large scale industries in the district. Bagamoyo and Kibaha follow with a large number of factories in the region. However, the former leads with large scale industries. On other hand, Kisarawe and Mafia attract less large and medium investors as there was new project and data shows it has one cement and fish processing plants respectively. The report shows that in 2016, GDP at current prices in the South eastern zone grew by 16.3 per cent to 10.75tri/- from 9.24tri/- in 2015. “This performance was mainly on account of good performance in agriculture and manufacturing sectors,” BoT report indicates. Nevertheless, despite increasing industrial activities in Coast, its GDP is the lowest in the south zone that comprises Ruvuma, Lindi, Mtwara and Coast. Ruvuma region accounted for 37.6 per cent of zone’s GDP, followed by Mtwara (26.1pc), Lindi (18.9pc) and Coast (17.4pc)