This was revealed during the ongoing law exhibition week at Mnazi Mmoja grounds in Dar es Salaam yesterday, where the Judiciary and other stakeholders were participating to provide different services and education on judicial matters to citizens. In an interview with the ‘Daily News,’ a Senior Official with the Estate Management Unit of the Judiciary of Tanzania, Engineer Coelestine Rutasindano, revealed that out of 3,963 wards in Tanzania, only 960 have court buildings. For that matter, he said, 3003 buildings are required. He explained further that out of 139 districts in the country, only 27 of them have court buildings. Thus, according to him, 112 buildings are required. Eng Rutasindano said considering the limited time and budget, the Judiciary considered as difficult to construct the 3,115 buildings to cater for the needs. “The Judiciary in collaboration with the Ardhi Institute, the National Construction Council and Moladi Tanzania decided to conduct a research in South Africa to find the cost effective and fast building technology to meet this requirement. We came out with this Moladi Project,” he noted. Moladi Project is a method of constructing buildings at lower costs as compared to the normal conversional system, which is considered to be very expensive. Eng Rutasindano noted further that they started implementing the project on trial basis with six buildings at Kibaha, Kawe, Bagamoyo, Kigamboni and Mkuranga. “I am happy to say that the project has proved successful and all these buildings are now ready for use. The Kibaha building with double courtrooms was completed in 2016, while the others were handed to relevant authorities for use this week,” he stated. Eng Rutasindano pointed out that a building at Kinyerezi, which will be used to accommodate the Ilala DistrictCourt, is in the final stages and will also be inaugurated very soon. He said that construction of other 16 court buildings in the country was going on. According to him, the construction of buildings, which are at foundation stage, that will be used as district courts is being carried out at Ruangwa, Lindi, Kilwa Masoko, Njombe, Kasulu, Rungwe, Chato, Geita, Kilindi, Songea, Mpanda, Sikonge, Simiyu, Longido, Bunda and Bukombe. Meanwhile, the Minister for Constitution and Justice, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, yesterday expressed government’s commitment to continue supporting the Judiciary, to ensure it performs its duties of delivering justice timely and in an effective manner. He said this when inaugurating a building to house Kigamboni Primary and District courts, adding that the government has been increasing budget for the Judiciary every year, considering the challenges it was facing, notably improvement of infrastructure. The Minister congratulated the Judiciary for conducting research and coming up with the Moladi Project which, according to information he received, has proved to be effective and the buildings meet the required standards and at low costs. The exhibition week, is part of this year’s Law Day celebrations, which will climax countrywide today. The celebrations will be marked at national level in Dar es Salaam where President John Magufuli, is expected to be the guest of honour