. That’s a sure teaser, for which I wouldn’t blame you for probably branding me (silently) an idiot . Well, during my mid-career journalist era over 20 years ago, I shared the newsroom of this newspaper with a person who has long been recalled to the Creator. He was beloved to all of us, and exuded a rare brand of warmth that broadened the camaraderie to journalists beyond the Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited family. Many people beyond the tribe of professionals to whom the jocular name paparazzi was pasted, also found that ‘tribesman’ of ours a nice person to relate to. He was Moses Kitururu, in respect of whom I renew my RIP message. Moses took his shortness so remarkably in his stride that we used to light-heartedly tease him for being tall in spite of being short; which is where the explanation of my opener at the outset lies. At lunch time at a facility close to the original TSN base along Maktaba Street, someone innocently asked a female colleague whether the child seated next to her was her son. Moses rapidly furnished an answer on her behalf, sensing that the question may have cast her offbalance. Patting her shoulder threefive times, he said something to the effect that “Oh yes; she is my mum, and a very loving one…” Everyone within hearing range burst into laughter, including the questioner, who had apparently been relieved, because, upon close examination, he noted that Moses wasn’t a child as such, but was short in stature, and couldn’t have possibly been the lady’s son. The relief lay in the realisation that someone else of Moses’ stature may have misconstrued the man’s enquiries as a mockery ! The humorous Moses was nicknamed Meya Kivuli (shadow mayor ) when he was Dodoma Bureau Chief. He boasted that he was Citizen Number Two of the designated country’s capital after Mr Peter Mavunde, the then mayor, who is reported to have been the nickname’s originator. Spirited fishing in matrimonial waters by Short man Moses paid off via a fiancée and subsequent wife almost twice his age. The wedding ceremony was billed one of the most sensational at the time . The long and short of it all, is that, physical stature, which is programmed by God, the Creator, is incidental and not a defect over which someone so created should pity oneself . What primarily counts is a person’s intellect, creativity, drive and other attributes that include compassion and honesty. Yet insensitive, acutely immoral, relatively tall people poke fun at their shorter compatriots. The cowardly species who lose battles with short people resort to idiotic remarks focused on the latter’s physique ! Strong-willed and industrious short people simply ignore insults and move on , and have won tremendous respect from community members, courtesy of being solid family heads, successful entrepreneurs as well as professionals in various fields . They differ vastly from lazy bones, parasites, bhang smokers, petty thieves, loiterers, and suchlike, whose tallness counts for nothing ! The same applies to quite many people with physical disabilities, which, delightfully, has largely displaced the ‘cripple’ reference, have fallen victim to stereotypical remarks. They have distinguished themselves as successful individuals via various fields. Amongst them are near-miracle performers, examples being handless ones who have programmed their legs into tools for writing and drawing. Some physically challenged people also fit the bill, venturing into crafts on which many of us, the sighted ones, would score close to zero if we were to make a try. Fancy, for instance, a blind tailor who takes measurements of a male customer’s Kaunda suit by running his hands from north to south, and ultimately comes up with a product that would put a full-sighted craft-mate to irreparable shame. But interventions are critical in respect of weaker-willed ones, particularly during childhood when they encounter naughty playmates and schoolmates, through counseling. It helps considerably to neutralize inferiority complexes, and cultivation of a culture of selfconfidence that begets the ‘I can; must do’ and even ‘dare devil’ spirit. Simple observations may yield interesting results. On a pavement of a street in an urban centre, a physically challenged person is busy running a fairly successful fruit stall, and its apparent that he has a family that he reasonably fends for. Two metres or so away, someone similarly physically challenged, is begging for alms ! On the broader level, community members have to be psyched into disposing themselves humanely (not sympathetically) towards them . IN PASSING A comical brand of a fake product ! I recently discovered, belatedly, that, a 2018 calendar I had bought, had assigned 312 days to the month of February!wkaigarula@yahoo. com 0713-450-633