The move follows the endorsement, by President John Magufuli, of the Tanzania Telecommunication Corporation Act, 2017, to replace the Tanzania Telecommunication Company Limited (TTCL). The Works, Communications and Transport Minister, Prof Makame Mbarawa, said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the initiative would closely engage the entity in the development agenda, particularly enabling the underserved community to access communication services. “Communication services should be at theheart of the development agenda to bring about inclusive economic growth with huge multiplying effect,” he said, adding that the initiative would make the new public institution increase its competitiveness in the market. He said the entity would operate as fully-fledged communications corporation with the main objective of safeguarding national security, promoting socio-economic development and managing strategic communications infrastructure. Under the new law, the corporation is tasked to enhance safety, security, economic and commercial viability of national telecommunications services and telecommunications infrastructure promotion for effective management and operations of telecommunications services. Prof Mbarawa assured all stakeholders that the government would oversee the smooth transfer of all operations from the former TTCL to the new public outfit. “All the other services will continue under the new public organisation in a more efficient and effective way,” he added. He furthermore explained that the transformation from a company to a corporation would not affect operations and that even people who had outstanding debts should continue clearing them under the original agreements. The minister stressed the need for serious collection of all outstanding debts from public and private customers, to enable the new public entity undertake its operations and cope with stiff market competitions. According to the Acting Director General of the Tanzania Communication Corporation, Mr Waziri Kindamba, a total of 6.8bn/- had been collected from the customers out of the 10.92bn/- total debt.