Speaking during the signing ceremony for the grant, the Japanese Ambassador to Tanzania, Masaharu Yoshida, said that Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Mtwara and Simiyu regions will benefit from the support. Mr Yoshida further said that the first project will be water supply at Bushigwamhala Village in Busega District of Simiyu Region in which 181m/-, will be used to fix the malfunctioning water distribution system. Japan will, he said, for the second project disburse 205m/- for the expansion of Gogo Primary School in Ilala Municipality, Dar es Salaam, where three classrooms, administration block and purchasing of furniture will be accomplished. The school has 1,800 registered pupils that are using 15 classrooms. Mr Yoshida said the third part of the grant was for the construction of Manyire Health Centre in Arusha District and that more than 191m/- will be used for the construction of a theatre and buying of furniture for the centre. Expounding further, he said that the fourth part of the project will focus on improvement of the learning environment in Masasi District and 205m/- has been earmarked for the purpose. He said the fund will be used for the construction of seven classrooms and toilets for Nakachindu and Chipango primary schools respectively. Currently, the schools have more than 200 pupils with six classrooms in total. He added that in the fifth part of the project 194m/- will be disbursed for the construction of students’ hostels at Kullangwa Prinmat Nursing and Midwifery School under Private Nurses and Midwives Association of Tanzania (PRINMAT). The current hostel is dilapidated and could no longer support students. Minister for Water and Irrigation, Isack Kamwele, urged all beneficiaries to utilise the funds accordingly. Mr Kamwele said there will be close supervision from the government to make sure the targeted communities benefit from such projects. “In water supply projects we want to make sure the services reach as many people as possible to save women from walking more than 400 metres to fetch water,” he said. The ceremony saw representatives from all the projects signing for their respective grants and was witnessed by the Minister of Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, Water Minister Kamwele and Ilala District Commissioner (DC), Sophia Mjema, among other dignitaries.