TFDA Communication and Public Relations Manager Gaudensia Simwanza said the counterfeit medicine in 1,000 capsules per box was reportedly manufactured by Astra Lifecare (India) Pvt Ltd. Ms Simwanza said the drug differs from the TFDA registered pills, adding that the genuine one’s manufacture and expiry dates are 05/2015 and 04/2017, respectively while the fake has 04/2016 and 03/2019 as its manufacture and expiry dates. She said between February 5 and 7, 2018, inspections of drugs, medical supplies and reagents were conducted in municipal councils of Dodoma, Morogoro and Singida as well as district councils of Manyoni, Iramba, Gairo, Mvomero, Kongwa and Chamwino. The manager said that the operation targeted fake drugs and medical equipment as well as inferior and unregistered medicines in the Central Zone. “Inspectors visited 172 sites, including 48 pharmacies of human drugs, five pharmacies for animal drugs, three hospitals, three health centres, 76 shops of human medicines, 30 shops of animal medicines, one dispensary and six veterinary centres,” she stated. Other anomalies unearthed on the authentic and phony drugs include thmanufacturing and expiry dates as well as wrong printing of batch numbers. The registered drug had the word ASCILLIN written upright while the fake one was slanting to the right, the artwork cord on the genuine one reads UT-CL-108A-6 while the fake one reads UT-CL-108A-8. Among the substandard drugs in the inspection include Ampimax suspension of Reyoung Pharmaceuticals Ltd, China No. 151272 that had solidified, Penizen V suspension No. DD7001 of Zenufa Laboratories Ltd, Dar es Salaam that had solidified and Co-malather tablets No. 170005 of Shelys Pharmaceuticals Ltd. After the inspection, TFDA has taken a number of actions including closure of premises found with government drugs, fake drugs and without proper documents and legal proceedings against the culprits, with help from the police and pharmacy council. TFDA has also issued a notice to the public to return all the mentioned drugs to where they were issued and all public hospitals, health centres and dispensaries that have fake drug to stop using it and instead return it to the Medical Store Department