The joint Heads of State Retreat themed “Deepening and widening regional integration through Infrastructure and Health Sector Development in the EAC Partner States” is aimed at accelerating the attainment of the objectives of the EAC Development Strategy, African Union Agenda 2063 and the Sustainable Development Goals in the infrastructure and health sectors in the EAC. It will build on political support to give impetus to regional flagship projects, funding commitments, and Public-Private Partnerships arrangements in infrastructure and health development projects. The EAC Heads of State Retreat is held when the community has already identified infrastructure development and health as sectors in which it would have to invest massive resources to spur economic growth and prosperity in East Africa. And the timing could not be better. Poor state of infrastructure in the region is one of most crucial issues that are holding back growth and development in East Africa. For instance, the 2018 edition of the African Economic Outlook (AEO) shows poor infrastructure has remained a key obstacle to the continent’s inclusive economic growth. Inadequate transport, communication, water and power infrastructure are hampering greater economic activities enhanced efficiency and increased competitiveness. According to Deloitte report on infrastructure for 2017, the world is eager to do business with Africa, but finds it difficult to access African markets, especially in the interior, due to poor infrastructure. It is against this backdrop we are pleased to note the EAC Heads of State Retreat will be preceded by the separate health and infrastructure sectors’ investors and donors’ roundtables to deliberate on financing for development projects in the two sectors. We therefore wish our leaders fruitful deliberations, trusting that the region will forge ahead in investing in infrastructure and health through public finance or public private partnership for the wellbeing of the people of East Africa.