The upshot, the State says, is to enhance the quality of health service delivery. It is accolades to the government in this connection. The Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elders and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, has said that all stakeholders in the health sector must adhere strictly to the rules and regulations that govern health care. Yes, this is a desired development. Health facilities that fail to score the number of points pegged on the standards of health service delivery, the government says, will be closed down swiftly. And, the deputy minister has pointed out, officials in-charge of the offending facilities will be punished. Enforcement of health standards, the government says, will be paraded fairly and equally in both public and private facilities with the overall quest being improved health service delivery nationwide. Indeed, this is a heartfelt initiative. Health service delivery is appallingly poor in some public and private health facilities. But there are problems that, in some genuine cases, must be solved if requisite standards of performance are to be met. It is imperative to mention here that public health facilities, mainly in rural Tanzania, face serious shortages of nearly everything, including medical personnel. You find a single medical physician attending to nearly 100 patients a day instead of the mandatory 20. Such serious shortage of medical staff impairs the quality of service delivery. Medical workers also complain bitterly in connection with unsatisfactory pay and other employment benefits. Shortage of medical tools is almost perennial in some cases. In some facilities even mundane items such as cotton swabs, laundry soap, antiseptics and bed sheets fall seriously short. So, it is not only the desperate patients who face problems. The medical personnel, who are invariably too few, find the terrain rugged and tough. So, running an institution that is understaffed; whose staff feel underpaid and one that lacks the requisite medical tools, is not a small matter. A similar situation prevails in private medical institutions where most lowly employees live on the breadline. Most medical workers in private hospitals, especially the trained nurses and clinical officers, strive to get jobs in state health facilities because there is “virtually no job security in the private sector” and salary payments depend of the inflow of patients. A survey carried out in private hospitals a few years ago showed that most health workers in private hospitals virtually “celebrate” when, say, malaria becomes pandemic and there is a constant inflow of patients who pay for medical care. The situation remains prevalent. Now, this is a laughable scenario! Some poorly paid medical workers have virtually turned into criminals. Some extort money from the terminally ill or their minders. In some cases the situation sounds like: “It’s your money or your life!” This is a punishable medical felony.