They endorsed nine key investment priorities areas for health and directed partner states to mobilise resources for their implementation. They also directed the summit to mobilise resources required for implementation of on-going priority infrastructure projects. The EAC region would need to raise at least 78 billion US dollars in the next ten years to fund more than 200 infrastructure projects in the five member states which include the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), hydropower, oil and gas projects across the region. The leaders agreed that the funds for the projects will be internally and externally raised through borrowing and public private partnerships. It is our responsibility to enhance integration in the region for our own good sake and that of the future generation. President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda put it very clear in his opening speech of the summit when he said we owe it to ourselves and the future generations to ensure that the region has efficient, interlinked and interoperable infrastructure to enable our people increase their prosperity through the exchange of goods and services. The importance of joint infrastructure projects in boosting integration cannot be overemphasised. East Africa and African continent as a whole suffer from inadequate infrastructure such as road network, railway access and pipeline which is slowing integration and limiting intra-regional trade. Integration of the East African region will be achieved with the development of shared infrastructure and political commitment of regional leaders. He said the region must integrate to be a truly bigger market, and economically attractive to compete with other economic giants. Tanzania, Uganda and Rwanda are showing the way in joint projects of crude oil pipeline from Hoima in Uganda to Tanga port and planned extension of a standard gauge railway from Isaka in northwestern Tanzania to Kigali in Rwanda. We understand other joint projects are in pipeline such as a road project linking Kenya and Tanzania. It is therefore imperative that these projects are executed to boost integration for our own good sake because we are stronger when we stick together. We should remember our old adage, “Unity is Strength” that has been used by various nations and entities throughout history to show the mighty power of unity. The might power of over 150 million people in East African Community will be unleashed once integration of our economies is enhanced through increased intra-regional trade which can be made possible through improved infrastructure.