Plus, to provide cheap automation solutions in the agricultural sector. Information availed to the ‘Daily News’ by Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) indicates that the investor is planning to produce about 1000 megawatts from gas, sugarcane biomass residues and solar system. According to TIC Public Relations Manager, Ms Pendo Gondwe, the prospective investor met TIC Executive Director, Geoffrey Mwambe, on Wednesday for preliminary discussions, raising hopes of having abundant energy in the near future to support an industrialisation drive. According to Siemens Country Manager, Mr Stephan Luyt, who also serves as Siemens Regional Account Manager, the company would also engage in electrical instrumentation and other engineering systems. Against the backdrop of the government’s announcement last August, of bids to build a 2,100-megawatt (MW) hydroelectric plant at Stiegler’s Gorge in Selous Game Reserve, Tanzania will position itself as a reliable exporter of power to neighbouring countriesLast month, Fortum Corporation of Finland also expressed an intention to invest in the country’s energy sector. Some Chinese companies are also in the list of firms that are eager to explore opportunities in the energy sector. The current power generation capacity stands at around 1,500MW. On provision of cheap automation solutions in the agricultural sector, the investor plans to revolutionise it by deploying upto- date technologies to help farmers enhance crop productivity and decrease production costs. According to a study conducted in 2016 titled ‘Automation in Agriculture’ which was published in the ‘International Journal of Engineering Science Invention Research and Development,’ there were many proven cases to show that automation increased agricultural productivity by 30 per cent and decreases the cost of production by 20 per cent. It has emerged from the study that America and Europe are leading the agricultural automation revolution, followed by Japan, with other parts of the world also starting adopting automation aggressively. “Agricultural automation is the primary area of research to improve food quantity and quality, use of appropriate quantity of agro chemicals, energy conservation and environment,” the study reads in part. Speaking during the meeting, Mr Mwambe said TIC would come up with a clear roadmap towards assisting Siemens on the implementation of the projects in the country. He said the roadmap would cover issues that TIC would need to enable the projects kick off. Speaking specifically on power, Mr Mwambe said talks between the investor, Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) and Tanesco were underway, towards striking a consensus. “When we receive investors expressing intention to invest in energy, we feel good given the fact that power is essential for spurring the industrialisation drive,” he said. Siemens is a German conglomerate headquartered in Berlin and Munich and the largest industrial manufacturing company in Europe with branch offices abroad. Its principal divisions are industry, energy, healthcare and infrastructure. The company is a prominent manufacturer of medical diagnostics equipment and its medical healthcare division, which generates about 12 per cent of the company’s total sales, is its second-most profitable unit, after the industrial automation division