According to a statement issued by the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Mr Matlare assured the Finance Minister, Dr Phillip Mpango, that they would work on recommendations put forward for financing big infrastructure projects in Tanzania, including construction of the standard gauge railway and Stieglar’s Gorge hydropower project. The statement said Dr Mpango had met with Mr Matlare in Dodoma yesterday where he asked the bank to look at possibilities of providing loans to finance implementation of major infrastructure projects, including construction of a standard gauge railway (SGR), Stieglar’s Gorge so as to speed up economic growth and development through industrialisation. Tanzania is focused and wants to profit from its long coastline and upgrade existing railways and roads to serve growing economies in the land-locked heart of Africa. Dr Mpango told Mr Matlare that the government had strengthened the economy and controlled inflation to a single-digit for an average of 5.3 per cent in the last six months. “We have invested in infrastructure such as education, water, agriculture, mining and trade and within two years over 80 industries have been constructed in Mkuranga area in Coast Region to take advantage of opportunities of gas pipeline and its close proximity with the Dar es Salaam port,” he said. He said also standard gauge railway project would ease passenger and cargo transportation for Tanzania and neighbouring land-locked countries and boost regional trade. He said construction of a major hydro-electric power plant at Stigler’s Gorge along Rufiji River would enable electricity which have installed capacity of at least 2,100MW will help Tanzania to have reliable electricity which is vital in the industrialisation agenda. The focus of the government was to ensure that goods produced by local manufacturers and minerals are added value in the country instead of exporting them as raw materials, he said adding reliable electricity supply would be vital in the endeavour. “To reach there we need to have reliable power supply and of lower cost so that our industries can boost productivity and that is why we ask your bank to consider on how it would participate in implementation of these mega-projects,” he said. Matlare commended the government under President John Magufuli for prudent management of the economy which has led to growth of an average of seven per cent. He said Tanzania was an icon of economic growth in Africa and after managing to expand the economy rapidly and stabilised growth where it is at the top of the fastest growing economies in Sub- Saharan Africa.