The MoU that EAC Secretary General Ambassador Liberat Mfumukeko and ILO Country Director Wellington Chibebe inked at the EAC headquarters here will among other things address issues like youth employment, social security, gender equality and women empowerment at the work place. The MoU is a follow up to another deal that the two organisations signed in 2001, enabling the EAC and ILO to develop and launch a five-year East African Decent Work Programme (2010-2015). Ambassador Mfumukeko said that the revised MoU provides for the development of the framework for the harmonisation of EAC partner states’ policies on social security in line with the ILO Convention on Social Security (Minimum Standards) No. 102 of 1952. “The MoU further provides for the expansion of micro, small and medium enterprises for employment creation. Included also is the development of EAC labour migration policy as one of the facilitators of labour mobility in the community,” said the SG. Ambassador Mfumukeko said the community was striving to address youth unemployment as a matter of urgency, adding that having well educated but unemployed youth was a time bomb. He disclosed that EAC partner states were addressing the issue by making agriculture an attractive income generating venture for the youth. He argued that matters of entry, work and residence permits have impact on the immigration functions in the partner states, saying the EAC Secretariat will convene a joint meeting of Heads of Immigration and Directors of Labour before June 2018 to finalise the harmonisation of entry, work and residence permits. At their April 30 through May 2, 2018, EAC and ILO technical officers agreed to boost collaboration in execution of the two-year project towards the extension of social security benefits to migrant workers in the EAC. In his remarks, Mr Chibebe said that his organisation will work with the EAC to accelerate regional integration and at the same time ensure that the drivers of integration, including free movement of labour, goods and services, enhance livelihoods of millions of working women and men and their families. “We welcome the signing of this new MoU that will be based firmly on a new DWP for East Africa, addressing strategically prioritised areas agreed upon by the ILO on one side and the EAC and the East African social partner organisations on the other side,” said Mr Chibebe. He was on view that giving financial assistance to the needy instead of equipping them with vocational skills was akin to creating culture of perpetual dependency. Also represented at the two day forum were the East African Trade Unions Confederation (EATUC) and the East African Employers Organisation (EAEO).