Not only are reserves of traditional fuel sources such as coal, wood and oil running low, but global warming, coupled with an increasingly vocal public, means countries and energy companies around the globe are clamouring for efficient, effective, and longterm solutions. Tanzania is no exception. The task at hand could be seen, at least initially, as something of a paradox: how can energy companies produce more energy, while simultaneously reducing the environmental impact? Such objectives are, however, eminently achievable. With technologies continually advancing, and with scientific experts continuing to discover and refine ways to generate vast quantities of clean energy, the majority of the world has committed to moving away from fuels that pollute the air and heat the planet. The future of energy belongs to sources that are relatively clean, plentiful, and will be able to make a positive impact for many years to come. And, when it comes to powering tomorrow, the Tanzania Gas and LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) Project (TGP) is set to play a major role. LNG and other energy options As the world continues to transition away from coal, wood and oil, one thing that has become increasingly clear is that there is no one-sizefits- all alternative. Sustainable energy options include solar, hydro, wind and biogas, as well as LNG. Unfortunately, most of these options have significant limitations. Solar requires the sun to be shining, hydro needs large volumes of flowing water, wind turbines are inoperable unless there is a strong wind, and biogas plants are incredibly difficult to scale-up. LNG, however, is not afflicted by any of these restrictions. Traditionally, the primary limitation of natural gas was that it could not be transported economically over long distances, but this issue has been overcome thanks to the progress of LNG technology. Now, even countries without access to any gas reserves are using natural gas to power their cities, towns and villages. For those countries with abundant gas reserves–such as Tanzania –this is a great opportunity to not only mature domestic energy infrastructure, but to export gas to any number of nations that are only too willing to buy. LNG around the world According to Forbes, the global LNG market is currently expanding by around 4-6 percent per year. Energy giants such as Shell, BP and ExxonMobil are currently ramping up their LNG efforts, and continuing to move away from fossil fuels such as oil and coal. Shell is so dedicated to LNG, that for the last few years it has been building Prelude, one of the world’s first floating liquefied natural gas platforms. When fully operational it will be the largest floating object ever constructed by man, and upon competition, it is expected that the entire project will have cost somewhere in the region of $12bn. It will have a total processing capacity of 5.3 million tonnes per annum, which includes 3.6 million tonnes of LNG. To put this into some perspective, this amount of LNG could meet 117 percent of Hong Kong’s annual natural gas demand. Prelude – the floating LNG This is just one example of how influential LNG is set to become in the coming years. While it is already a viable energy option, its popularity is only set to increase as other fossil fuels become less practical. Tanzania, with estimated in-place natural gas reserves of 57 trillion cubic feet, is perfectly placed to take advantage. A long-term investment At the end of the day, a successful energy project is one that provides long-term benefits. The goal of the project should not be simply to produce energy; it should act as a catalyst that encourages other businesses and industries to grow. The TGP aims to place Tanzania at the heart of the global LNG industry, but will also be a shining beacon that highlights the country’s ability to build and operate large-scale and technologically advanced projects. This is absolutely vital to develop the country’s economy. President John Magufuli has spoken of his desire to see the country become increasingly industrialised over the next decades, and the TGP is to be the first step in this huge transformation process. Not only will projects of this calibre considerably enhance Tanzania’s infrastructure, but they will provide jobs, bolster the economy and improve people’s quality of life. Any truly successful energy project must leave a legacy, and the TGP has been developed with legacy firmly in mind. Its initial purpose will be, of course, to dramatically expand Tanzania’s gas industry, but it will also be setting a strong example. It will showcase the country as a viable opportunity for investment and aims to inspire further industrial progression. The TGP is far more than an energy project; it is laying the foundations that will allow Tanzania to realise its enormous economic potential