HESLB Director General Abdul-Razaq Badru told reporters in Dar es Salaam that over 40,000 first year students will benefit from the 427bn/- allocated for the next academic year. “ The application window is open for two months, starting today (yesterday) and will be closed on July 19 to enable all students to have enough time to read the guidelines effectively and comply with the instructions given by the board,” he said. He said that in the coming academic year, priority will be on the needy students who will study science, Mathematics and social health science courses. “Our priority will also be on applicants who will be admitted in courses that stimulate growth of industrial economy, including all engineering, science, agriculture, livestock and other gas and energy related courses,” he said. According to HESLB DG, the special needy applicants, including orphans will get priority subject to submission of death certificates of their parents, regardless of their courses. He pointed out that HESLB has planned to issue loans to 40,000 new applicants and over 80,000 continuing students, 35 per cent of them or 14,000 being female and male students making 65 per cent or 26,000. He called on all applicants to comply with the instructions given by the board, advising those who will afford to pay for studies to give the chance other needy students to apply for the loan. Acting Postmaster General Hassan Mwang’ombesaid that the Cooperation has prepared over 175 to 180 postal sites countrywide that will be used in serving the applicants. “We are well prepared to serve all applicants without any disturbances. We have prepared special teams to help applicants during their applications,” he said. Mr Mwang’ombe called on all loan applicants to send their application earlier to avoid problems that may arise if their application is late. He said that the corporation is prepared to support the applicants to ensure they follow all instruction given on the application form. Registration, Insolvency and Trusteeship Agency (RITA) Registration Manager Patricia Mkulya said all applicants should use http:// uhakiki.rita.go.tz/uhakiki to access all information on how to acquire their birth certificates. He advices applicants to send their information earlier to avoid encountering last minute rush hitches.