This follows complaints that some banks do not honour the documents. Deputy Minister Angelina Mabula told Parliament recently that the government recognizes the documents as collateral for loan applications. She called on leaders and members of the public to cooperate during issuance of the documents to rural residents. Government officials are currently busy registering and issuing customary land ownership documents. The Village Land Act, No 5 of 1999, stipulates that documents are proof of land ownership. This being the case the certificates should be respected. Indeed the documents help identify owners of land and, consequently, lead to reduced land conflicts. The legislators heard that up to March 2018, a total of 56,506 customary land certificate of rights of occupancy had been issued in various villages in the country. At the moment, conflicts over land are a nagging headache. In fact village leaders have been ordered to refrain from initiating such conflicts in their localities. Instead, they should carry out effective supervision of boundaries between their villages. It is widely known that greedy village leaders have a penchant for selling land that belongs to other people. This injustice has caused numerous disputes over land in rural Tanzania and has prompted the government to step in and attempt to stem the rot. The government, under close supervision from President John Magufuli, has already resolved more than 690 conflicts out of a whopping total of 1,378. Land conflicts are a confounding scenario in this country. They crop up anywhere nearly every day. Since 2004, for example, a total of 117 land councils have met to find solutions to 103,000 conflicts over land. These figures speak aloud about the magnitude of the problem. The Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Developments says that land councils are expected to handle a shocking total of 12,000 conflicts a year. The most bitter conflicts often pit farmers against cattle keepers. It is imperative to mention here that we all need the presence of farmers in this country as much as we need livestock keepers. While farmer till the land and grow food and cash crops, the cattle keepers produce the equally important cattle meat and milk. So, some farmers in this country get a raw deal when their tracts of farmland are passed to so-called investors with little or no compensation at all. This is land grabbing which is, indeed, an abominable felony; no wonder foreign investors are not taken kindly in some localities.