In an interview with the Daily News, NIDA’s Head of Communication, Rose Joseph, says NIDA has made some progress in registration and identication of people in dierent regions of Tanzania, who have recognizing the importance of registration exercise. The identication work has been completed in the designated capital Dodoma, because of the people’s high response to the exercise.“There has been high demand from the citizens and the government has set up strategies and more eorts to determine who is citizen and who is not. I believe until the end of this year all the wards and districts in Dodoma Region will be reached successfully”, said Joseph. The NIDA Head of Communication said has congratulated the Fifth Phase Government under the leadership of President John Pombe Magufuli to allocate adequate funds to its budget in the issue of national identication data base. Preparations for the exercise have been made in regions of Katavi, Kigoma and Rukwa where they will be launch will soon take place in identication of its residents of those regions but to the others regions like Zanzibar the process has been already successful. According to Joseph, they have also been working together with BRELA in registration of companies in the country. A company cannot be registered if it doesn’t have an identity, that means identication card is very important wherever and whatever you do. “If it happens once one has lost his or her national identication card, they must report to the NIDA oces in their respective regions in order to be issued with a new card. But the regulation says you will have to pay, but if you lose it again the amount will increase,” said NIDA Head of Communication, Rose Joseph .NIDA in collaboration with Rita, Tamiseni and Migration Services Department, they have been actively involved in identifying a big number of aliens and refugees have been issued with cards. When they leave the country they must surrender the cards to authorities where they got the cards,” Rose explained.