The minister admitted that cooperative societies were on the verge of collapsing due to weak leadership, forcing several farmers to opt out of the schemes. “We have directed leaders of all cooperative unions to ensure they don’t tamper with farmers’ money. Stern legal and disciplinary actions will be taken against all those who will be found guilty,” the minister said. The minister’s remarks were prompted by a concern raised by Maswa East MP, Mr Mashimba Ndaki (CCM), who had just objected claims that from now on cotton farmers will be accumulating their cotton at the cooperative society and businessmen will buy cotton from the cooperatives. “We all know that the cooperatives we are referring to here are all ineffective and have faced a lot of hiccups’,” he said, demanding for the government explanation on measures which have been taken to ensure that farmers will benefit from the new strategy. Another MP for Bunda Urban (Chadema), Ms Ester Bulaya said cotton farmers have long been humiliated due to lack of markets for their produces. But Dr Tizeba had another view, saying the price of cotton in the country is determined by the world market. Tanzania is not the only country in the world that produces cotton he said, saying that businessmen meet and decide on the best price for the goods and that reflects on the country’s domestic market. According to the minister, the cotton farmers who have been charged one percent of their actual sales should expect free inputs in the next season. He said the payment that was made from the actual sales will finance the procurement of the inputs. He said such arrangement was only possible under cooperative societies ... “this is why we are strengthening cooperative societies,’’ he added. Bunda Rural MP, Mr Boniface Getere (CCM), requested the government’s explanation on plans to ensure all the cotton produced by farmers in the area this year get markets. Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Dr Mary Mwanjelwa said during the 2017/18 season, cotton farmers in Bunda as well as other 38 councils will have access to market and the price per kilo is expected to be 1100/-. The deputy minister said two firms, Olam Tanzania Ltd and S&C Ginning Company Ltd have already signed a contract with Bunda district council for the purpose.