Mr Jafo made the announcement here yesterday during the signing of agreements for strategic revenue generating projects between the Ministry of Finance and DEDs of 17 municipalities that are beneficiaries of 131.5bn/- projects. “The government is conducting a DEDs’ performance audit as it has come to our attention that some of them are under-performance and thus incapable of coping with the fifth phase government’s pace,” he said. He said timely and value for money of the projects are among the criteria being applied in the performance audit, stressing that the days of the unfit ones were numbered. The minister stressed to District Executive Directorsthat the projects would be a litmus test as the government will not embrace whoever would delay their effective and timely implementation. “You should observe the timeframe of the projects but on top of that the quality which accurately reflects the value for money, and unconvincing explanations for delays won’t be accepted,” said Mr Jafo. Mr Jafo pointed out that, being accounting officers, stern measures would be taken against whoever would feature adversely Controller and Auditor General’s (CAG) reports. He assigned the followup and investigation unit under his ministry to make close monitoring and control of the projects. Speaking on the contract signed with 17 municipalities, the minister said the agreement sought to address the entities’ dependency on the treasury for development projects. The minister furthermore reminded the DEDs to ensure proper expenditure of the allocated funds, failure of which disciplinary measures awaited them On her part, the Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Ashatu Kijaji, remarked during the contract signing ceremony for 22 strategic municipality projects in ten regions: “If you are not sure of capability to undertake the task successfully, you better refrain from signing, as there will be zero tolerance for any kind of misconduct in the projects that are meant to boost revenue collection and cease dependency on the central government. ” Dr Kijaju said the government intended to empower the municipalities whose dependency on the central government stood at 88 per cent to empower them so that they can generate and run their projects from local revenue by 85 per cent come 2025. She called upon the municipalities to be creative and come up with project proposals for coping with the government’s industrial economy drive. This, she said, was critical for creating employment opportunities and enhancing revenue generation. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mr Dotto James, said the projects would be implemented timely as funds for them were factored in the 2018/19 budget. He reminded them that project criteria and value for money should scrupulously observed in compliance with project proposals, adding that misconduct or embezzlement would not be entertained. Giving the overview of the projects, the Commissioner of budget, Ms Mary Maganga, said they had received 28 project write-up proposals worth 273bn/- but only 22 met the set criteria and were beneficial. She said in the 2017/18 financial year, Dar es Salaam Region signed similar contracts for the construction of state of art markets at Kisutu, Magomeni and Mburahati, Mbezi Louis bus stand and Vingunguti modern slaughter house. Ms Maganga stressed on timely implementation of the projects so that the anticipated objectives were met.