A safe guess is that, for starters, they are digesting the sentiments highlighted in President John Magufuli’s speech that he delivered in Iringa, where the event was held at national level. We must remind ourselves that, in addition to his other key roles,the President is Worker Number One. The very fact that he is the Head of State implies that, he plays an instrumental role towards enhancing the social welfare and economic development of the country. Success on that front would place him in good stead of his compatriots and earn him credit for fulfilling the manifesto of the ruling party, CCM, of which he is the national chairman. Plus, enhanced leadership credentials earn the President good marks beyond the borders and boost the pride of Tanzanians. The President’s role is largely co-ordinative, the pooled efforts of the people, who, besides workers, include key players like private sector operators, farmers and pastoralists, being critical in propelling the nation forward. Over the years, the government has been disabusing the notion nursed by some people, that political independence from colonial rule would be replaced by a situation under which the government would be the all-round provider. The incumbent President’s ‘Hapa Kazi Tu’ (Hard Work is what Matters Most) clarion call has echoes of near-identical ones popularized by Founding President Mwalimu Julius Nyerere – ‘Uhuru Na Kazi’ and ‘Uhuru Ni Kazi’. The compelling message in these, is that work is the driving force behind social and economic prosperity covering spheres that cover household, communities and the nation at large. They serve to remind us all, that it is work that makes any country; any nation, tick, without which life would be demeaned, if not absolutely meaningless. And worse, as President Magufuli bluntly states periodically, those who don’t want to work forfeit the right to live. A blunt, but poignant message, for utmost possible achievements that would ultimately translate into national prosperity can only stem from work, nay, VERY HARD WORK ! That’s what we MUST all focus on and rededicate ourselves to ahead of May Day 2019!