A flag carrier instills a sense of pride when its tail is spotted on the runway of a far-off land; In an increasingly globalised world, smart governments recognize the importance of having their flags fluttering on as many routes as possible. In both cases, small states have made their airlines part of their national identity and growth strategy. As governments around the world continue to tighten their belts, they also have to remember that there are some things you simply have to protect: education, national security, banks and infrastructure are all fundamental. An airline to call your own is also useful to get your citizens around the world and bring in visitors to invest and marvel at your achievements. The same views have been expressed by local experts when speaking on the importance of the national carrier-Air Tanzania Corporation Limited (ATCL) which is now spreading its wings , thanks to the efforts by President John Magufuli who has thrown his full weight behind initiatives to to revive it. They have stated that existence of a strong and reliable national carrier greatly contributes to a country’s economic growth. Speaking in separate telephone interviews with some experts yesterday, they observed that the advantages include boosting foreign incomes, creating more jobs as well as promoting the country and its tourism. EXPERTS in the aviation industry believe that on a good day, a national airline is an embassy with wings – transporting culture, cuisine, commerce and goodwill around the world. A flag carrier instills a sense of pride when its tail is spotted on the runway of a far-off land; In an increasingly globalised world, smart governments recognize the importance of having their flags fluttering on as many routes as possible. In both cases, small states have made their airlines part of their national identity and growth strategy. As governments around the world continue to tighten their belts, they also have to remember that there are some things you simply have to protect: education, national security, banks and infrastructure are all fundamental. An airline to call your own is also useful to get your citizens around the world and bring in visitors to invest and marvel at your achievements. The same views have been expressed by local experts when speaking on the importance of the national carrier-Air Tanzania Corporation Limited (ATCL) which is now spreading its wings , thanks to the efforts by President John Magufuli who has thrown his full weight behind initiatives to to revive it. They have stated that existence of a strong and reliable national carrier greatly contributes to a country’s economic growth. Speaking in separate telephone interviews with some experts yesterday, they observed that the advantages include boosting foreign incomes, creating more jobs as well as promoting the country and its tourism.