Data showed that Tanzania and Uganda have the lowest penetration in the region at less than 1.0 per cent. While Kenya, according to some reports leads the market with the sector penetration of around 3.0 per cent and Rwanda less than 2.0 per cent. The region stakeholders have all reasons to worry about penetration since South Africa commands 13 per cent penetration. South Africa accounts for almost 80 per cent of all premiums in sub- Saharan Africa. Tanzania’s Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Ashatu Kijaji, said a recent survey indicates that uptake of insurance services has not been impressive. “Although Finscope reports an upward trend in insurance uptake but that comes [mainly] from health insurance and other statutory covers,” Dr Kijaji said. Dr Kijaji added, the contribution of the insurance sector to the GDP has also not been impressive in the recent times compared with other economies in the region. Tanzania insurance sector has been contributing a meager 0.7 per cent. The low penetration thus offers a “full of opportunities” at the time when Tanzania is expecting to become an industrialised country by 2025. “The rapid economic developments now sweeping the country create such enormous opportunities for the insurance industry,” she said. Dr Kijaji further said that, the growth of this market segment hindered by low demand for insurance, which mainly contributed by low understanding by potential customers on how insurance works which results into negative perceptions and attitudes towards insurance. Other sector’s shortfalls in Tanzania arise due to limited distribution channels for insurance, limited skilled insurance personnel, limited product offerings --including micro insurance-- and lack of enabling environment. In Kenya despite to lead others in penetration but in recent days, there have been a lot of talks about the sector performance and what needs to be done to grow the industry. There are 50 insurance companies in Kenya. That means there is one insurance company for every one million people. “Yet penetration has remained at a meagre three per cent for years,” Alex Mbai, a partner at KPMG said during a presentation last year. The audit firm decried the fact that despite a lot being done by the State to increase penetration, the figure had not yet moved from that position. According to a September 2017 report by the Insurance Regulatory Authority (IRA), the industry regulatory body, penetration currently stands at 2.73 per cent after dipped from 2.8 per cent in 2016. Kenya’s IRA blamed the dip in penetration to a high nominal growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of 14.3 per cent compared to nominal growth in gross direct premium which was at 13.2 per cent. Insurance penetration is usually calculated as a percentage of premiums to a country’s GDP. The biggest challenge to penetration remains lack of awareness among Kenyans and insurance companies are reluctant to spend moneyin carrying out awareness. In Rwanda also are singing the same song with the rest of its peers—lack of awareness. Reports from Kigali showed that low penetration of life insurance was also attributed to low levels of awareness on the need for insurance. The Insurance penetration levels have remained relatively low despite an increase in the number of players on various levels over the previous years, little improvement has been felt. Currently, the Rwandan insurance industry is composed of nine non-life insurers, four life insurers, two public medical insurers, 15 insurance brokers and 415 insurance agents. Last year, also the Uganda Insurers Association officially launched the sector’s 10 year Market Growth and Development Plan which intends to see insurance penetration grow from less than 1.0 per cent to 3.0 per cent by 2025 in March 2017. The Plan intends to bring about increased penetration through streamlining a series of actions and activities. In general, Uganda has 30 insurance companies, Kenya has 53, Tanzania has 31, Burundi has 6 and Rwanda has 14. On the other hand as the stakeholders in individual member states pounder about penetration, the consultations over developing of East African single insurance legal regulatory switched to overdrive. The sector stakeholders started a six-day meeting in Arusha, Tanzania yesterday to deliberate on the best framework that will govern the best cross-border underwriting. At the end of the six daymeeting, the stakeholders, including the sector CEOs envisaged to come up with best outcome that will drive the industry to next level. Last August insurance stakeholders, under their umbrella of the East African Insurance Supervisory Association (EAISA), met. The last meeting was in efforts to adopt common regulatory standards meant to protect policy holders and ensure stability of the sector. In 2010, EAC regulators signed an MoU on sharing financial data on the status of insurance firms and to co-ordinate supervision of insurers which operate regionally with a view to reducing contagion risks.