Launching the 2018 international trade show, which has attracted tourism stakeholders from Tanzania as well, the minister said the event offers special platform for stakeholders, investors and government leaders from various countries to discuss business related issues and other related investment plans. He said exhibitors from at least 80 countries, 22 of them African have attended the trade show.Nine ministers from different African countries were among hundreds of attendees at the official opening. THE minister added that Africa’s share of the global tourism pie has not yet reached its potential, calling for exhibitors to exploit available opportunity in the African tourism sector. “For buyers, I know you are ahead of the curve and I have no doubt that you will reap rich rewards from your buying decisions in the next days.And, sellers from all over the continent, we know that increased demand is the engine for growth of the tourism economy in our different countries,” said Mr Hanekom. He said the trade show has attracted 1,747 buyers from countries all over the world, saying: “while here, you will experience the spirit and soul of Africa, the opportunity to immerse yourselves in the culture and traditions of no less than 22 exhibiting African countries.” He told companies and stakeholders attending the show to sell their products, services and promote businesses to capture new markets and boost tourism businesses in their countries. “ For sellers, we are here to capture the interest of buyers with our unique products allowing tourism to double, treble and quadruple its contribution to economic growth and job creation,” said the Minister. Owned and managed by South African Tourism, Africa’s Travel Indaba has established itself as the world’s leading African tourism trade show. Africa’s Travel Indaba attracts about 7 000 delegates from all over the world. In 2017 more than 1 000 exhibiting businesses from 18 African countries showcased an array of travel and tourism offerings to almost1 500 local and international travel buyers and shared stories with over 700 media platforms. More than 20 000 business meetings were held over the three-day period, making this one of the most successful business platforms for African tourism.