Justices Stella Mugasha, Rehema Mkuye and Jacobs Mwambegele had invited advocates for the parties to address the court on a number of issues in a ‘suo motu’ (own motion) revision application, but the session was marred by legal arguments and technicalities, instead. As a result, the justices ordered the parties to resort to written submissions, instead of oral hearing, to determine the application in question. They ordered the parties to file their submissions on May 25, and directed that any responses to such submissions would be filed within 14 days thereafter. The parties into the dispute are Millicom (Tanzania) NV, who has been named as applicant in the revision application. The respondents are: James Alan Russell Bell, a British national and Golden Globe International Services Limited. Other respondents are Quality Group Limited, Mic UFA Limited, Millicom International Cellular S.A and Mic Tanzania Limited. There are claims of forgery in the sale of the shares and it is Millicom (Tanzania) NV, which complained to the Chief Justice over the matter before opening the revision application. Advocates, who were representing the parties into the dispute, are Eric Ng’mario, Fayaz Bhojan and Gaudiosus Ishengoma, for Millicom N.V, while Mpaya Kamara and Joseph Ndaz, appeared for Golden Globe International Services Limited. Quality Group was represented by advocates Seni Malimi and Alex Mgongolwa; Millicom International was under services of Counsel Dr Wilbard Kapinga and Gasper Nyika, while Mic Tanzania Limited was represented by advocate Razon Mbwambo. There have been ranges of claims as regard to transfer of shares of Tigo with Millicom (Tanzania) NV, a limited liability company registered under the laws of Curacao, claiming to be the majority shareholder of MIC Tanzania Limited, a company registered in the United Republic of Tanzania. The source of the dispute can be traced way back in 2002 when a Briton, Mr James Bell, filed a Civil Case No. 306/2002 against MIC UFA Ltd, Millicom International Cellular SA and MIC Tanzania Limited. In the case, Millicom NV was not a party. Mr Bell, the Plaintiff in such proceedings, managed to get a default judgment against MIC UFA Limited and Millicom International Cellular SA only in March 2005. The Plaintiff attempted to execute the judgment against shares in Tigo, but could not because High Court Judge Laurian Kalegeya, as he then was, on November 7, 2009 ruled that such shares were not owned by Millicom International Cellular SA, but rather Millicom NV, a wholly separate legal entity. However, on February 18, 2014, the plaintiff moved another action by filing an application for execution against the same shares, which he claimed were owned by Millicom International Cellular in Tigo. On June 17, 2014, the District Registrar, Ms Pamela Mazengo, appointed Mr Mustafa Nyumbamkali of Super Auction Mart & Court Brokers as auctioneer and issued a prohibitory order attaching shares Millicom International Cellular owned in Tigo. These non-existent shares were purportedly sold by way of an auction on November 5, 2014, to an offshore company, Golden Globe International Services limited, allegedly controlled and beneficially owned by Mr Yusuf Manji. On November 10, 2014, the District Registrar issued a certificate of sale. The letter by Millicom NV indicates that having realised that it has purchased shares that do not exist, the buyer of the shares and the court broker allegedly moved the District Registrar to issue another certificate of sale, where the name of Millicom NV was inserted. Millicom NV states in the complaint letter to the Chief Justice that “the circumstances surrounding this ‘editing’ of the Order issued by Mazengo by DR strongly imply forgery or fabrication and serious misconduct.” It is stated that in any event it came to be that Millicom NV was ‘added’ by District Registrar Mazengo to court proceedings by the stroke of a pen, without ever been a party to the case, without having heard, without being summoned to the court and in highly suspicious circumstances