The First Citizen made the declaration in recognition of the steadfast contribution and expertise of Eng Mfugale in supervising and personally taking part in designing road and bridge projects in many parts of the country. Dr Magufuli made the announcement during the launch of a 384-metres Bridge over Kilombero River built at the cost of 61bn/- which was earlier named Magufuli Bridge by the Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Prof Makame Mbarawa. Earlier, Prof Mbarawa named the bridge after President Magufuli, owing to powers vested on the Minister through the Road Act number 19 of 2007 and its regulations of 2009. “Given his committed work at Tazara flyover and detailed design for an envisaged flyover at Kamata, I am instructing that the Tazara flyover should be named Mfugale Flyover during its official launch,” Dr Magufuli declared. The President thus directed the responsible Minister for the docket, Prof Mbarawa, to ensure the country’s first and historic flyover in the country’s commercial capital of Dar es Salaam was named after the TANROADS boss. The announcement took many people by a mixture of surprise and jubilation given the fact that it is the first time for the Head of State to make such a proclamation. Never had it been recorded in the country’s history for the top executor of such projects to be accorded the honour. All other major roads and bridges in the country are named after former presidents and highlevel government leaders and politicians as well as former liberation fighters in Africa and beyond. Speaking during the launch at CCM-Tandani grounds in Kilombero, spoke highly of Eng Mfugale, showering praises on him for efficiently supervising major construction projects on bridges and roads. “As you did to name the Kilombero Bridge after my name… .I suggest to you the minister because I know it is within your mandate, it is not by force,” Dr Magufuli suggested to the minister. The Head of State cited some of the projects whose construction was overseen by Eng Mfugale as the magnificent Julius Nyerere Bridge across the Indian Ocean which connects the city centre to Kigamboni Creek andthe Magufuli Bridge, which was launched yesterday. Dr Magufuli also mentioned Mkapa Bridge on River Rufiji in Coast Region and Umoja (Unity) Bridge which links Tanzania with Mozambique across Ruvuma River in Mtwara. Meanwhile, the First Citizen reiterated before the multitude of people at the ceremony that local authorities should not impose crop cess (tax) on agricultural produce by farmers weighing less than one tonne. Dr restated the directive following complaints by Members of Parliament from the region and some residents who had complained against local authorities in the area for imposing the charges for produce which was less than one tonne. “The government last year amended various laws, regulations and by-laws which culminated in removal of about 87 different nuisance taxes which were previously imposed to farmers and livestock keepers,” Dr Magufuli stated, amid cheers from the crowd. On the other hand, the President spoke against vandalism of the newly launched bridge, warning of stern actions against such uncivilised acts.