On the note, the Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Mr Selemani Jafo’s recent statement for District Executive Directors (DEDs) directive to perform or go should be respected for the country to professionally fight poverty, ignorance and disease in a nutshell. Business as usual era where some senior staff could report to office and technically disappear in the thin air and only surface to monitor the development behind them with phones and summons for those, who would question their work style if adopted, will mean even the Millennium Development Goals would still be a dream, despite the pace being set by the Fifth Phase Government of John Pombe Magufuli especially in his industrialisation drive. Workers should realise that time and tides wait for no man that is why work plans are set for them to complete their desired goals, before moving to the next phase. The minister made it clear that senior officials will be responsible for their performance through ground visits and reviews, and this is the only standard way to eliminate all sorts of laxity, and poor attitude at the workplace. If such a thing is not implemented at the workplace, one of the hidden, hard-to-measure factors will end up penetrating and in turn jeopardise the country in achieving its goals. No doubt every manager would like to see his work completed on time set or beat the deadline and deliver before time set, otherwise, his/her lack of commitment would be stumbling block for other employees at the workplace. Being a stumbling block prevents other junior employees from moving forward because employees also require space to work and make decisions that will make the workforce to achieve the goals set. If a manager is known for being slippery at workplace, how can he/she truly delegate responsibilities? This means all sorts of weaknesses would boomerang on him/her and he/she should bear the burden at the workplace. If you are a manager and you haven’t clearly stated nor communicated concrete workplace goals to the employees, and above all ensured that you have a shared understanding of what your success in each goal is, then you are clearly falling down on the most important jobs to accomplish.