Director General of African Affairs Department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mr Dai Bing noted that China is very sincere in its cooperation with the continent. “In the past, Africa had no choice. For now the continent has a chance for making right choice to make economic globalisation more open, inclusive, beneficial, and balanced and a win-win proposition,” he noted. Mr Dai who was speaking to African journalists who are in a 10-month special training programme in China, asserted that the two sides needed to jointly work together to tackle challenges that emerge. He noted that as China is promoting its own development and expanding opening up policy, the world’s most populous nation attaches great importance on African development affairs. “China’s voice is not loud. Africa’s voice is not loud too. If we combine our voices together we can speak high in volume... we can create an impact on the global development,” he affirmed. Mr Dai asserted that the two sides, whose population is currently approximated to hit about 2.5 billion, making one third of the global population, are able to change the world and make it a better place to live. He added that China-Africa relation was built on the spirit of good friends, brothers and partners and both sides remained sincere to each other for aeons. The official further revealed that China was more focused on development issues and will not interfere with any African country’s internal matters as it attaches great respect on the independence and sovereignty of every State. Mr Dai also spoke on peace and security in Africa, insisting that it is still committed to helping the continent in its endeavours of ensuring that the place becomes safe, secured and stable. On trade and investment, Mr Dai stated that the two sides are scaling new heights as China investments in Africa have been on the increase. For instance, he noted that by 2015, China investment in Africa reached 100 billion USD, adding that the multibillion investment benefited both sides.