Construction of the road is crucial for unlocking opportunities along the Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania (SAGCOT) and Kilombero valley through agriculture, fishing, trade and tourism in addition to setting up of industries. Dr Magufuli made the revelation in Morogoro yesterday during an occasion to lay a foundation stone for construction of a 66.9 kilometres of tarmac road from Kidatu to Ifakara in the region to be constructed at a total cost of 104.9bn/-. President Magufuli explained yesterday that the feasibility study and detailed designing was being funded by the African Development Bank (AfDB), calling upon other development partners to support the country to construct the key road. Implementation of the Kidatu-Ifakara stretch is part of plans by the government to extend the road to Lupiro-Malinyi –Londo and eventually Lumecha area at Songea in Ruvuma. Kidatu is already linked with a tarmac road to Mikumi along the Dar es Salaam-Morogoro- Iringa-Mbeya-Zambia Highway. Execution of the envisaged road project from Kidatu to Songea is expected to reduce the distance of travelling from Morogoro to Ruvuma by 131km. From Lupiro, the road will branch off to Mahenge in Ulanga and eventually Selous Game Reserve. President Magufuli pointed to the fact that the road project would be made possible now that the 384- km bridge linking Ifakara and Malinyi over Kilombero River had been completed and set for official launching today. Speaking earlier, the Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Prof Makame Mbarawa, explained that execution of the Kidatu-Ifakara Road Would involve construction of a 130-metre long bridge over Ruaha Mkuu River along the stretch. Prof Mbarawa explained that the project is being jointly funded by the government of Tanzania, the European Union (EU) as well as the United States and United Kingdom through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and Department for International Development (DfID). Mikumi MP Mr Joseph Haule (Chadema), had earlier placed a request to the government to construct a tarmac road to link Morogoro and Tanga regions to ease movements of people and goods along the corridor. The road proposed by the MP would stretch from Korogwe-Handeni- Mvomero and eventually Mikumi where it will link with the Mikumi-Lupiro- Songea road.