Mr Mfugale said that the move followed a meeting by board of directors who reviewed the law and found the need to amend some sections so that it copes with the situation at present. “Some of the sections that are up for amendment include that of the board structure and sources of revenues,” said Mr Mfugale. Adding, “The current section states that every district or municipal council is supposed to contribute only 10 per cent in one phase, which is not healthy to the board.” As per their proposed amendment, he said, the councils must disburse one per cent of their annual income at once and any delay bears penalties Moreover, Mr Mfugale said the current law has put a 13 per cent interest on all loans, saying it is not proper to state the amount of interest since at times the board also gets fund from other entities, with different loan terms. Mr Mfugale said that the call to amend the Act is due to the fact that some sections are outdated, thus creating a lot of challenges including lack of enough funds to run their operations effectively. The Board Chief Executive Director named the source of revenue as contributions from councils’ local revenues, interest from loans issued and subsidy from the central government which he said does not cater for the needs. So far, he said, they have in hand loan requests pegged at 50bn/- from councils but their capacity is to issue 5.7bn/- which is far from target. He said that apart from the legal challenges, timely loan repayment by some councils have been affecting their performance. “Only 60 municipalities honour their loans on time, the remaining 100 have been a problem when it comes to loan repayment, not because they do not have funds but because it is not in their priority list, while knowing they are legally obliged to do so,” he said. Following the remarks, the Minister of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local government, Mr Selemani Jafo has banned the councils with debts in the board from borrowing from other financial institutions.