Addressing journalists here ahead of today’s climax of the World Press Freedom Day Commemoration, Mr Ndugai said the Parliament is aware of the challenges facing the industry and that the House is ready to offer any needed support to improve the situation. Mr Ndugai advised professional bodies, stakeholders and journalists to work closely with the Parliamentary Standing Committees and Members of Parliament so that some of the challenges could be discussed together for an amicable solution. “ Use the Parliamentary Standing Committees to address the challenges and factors which you think need our intervention. We can work together to bring about the needed economic gains” said the Speaker However, he said the media should be guided by professionalism in their delivery, especially in presentation of facts and ideas so that no part is injured. “Some journalists have been summoned to appear before the Parliamentary Privileges, Ethics and Powers Committee and ended up apologizing on matters that if they had stuck to professionalism, they will not have reached that particular stage,” he said Adding that “Some would present an issue in such a manner that those involved will be looked at as hopeless, which is not the case, but, with proper facts and evidence, the very same story will speak the truth in a balanced and well comprehended manner” He assured the journalists attending the symposium that the Parliament is ready to enact, amend and scrap laws which hinder press freedom to give room for the media industry to work for the better of the nation. Speaker Ndugai also insisted on the need for the media to ensure people especially in rural areas are equipped with the needed information so that they can participate fully in economic activities. Earlier, Co-Chairperson of the World Press Freedom Day Committee, Ms Salome Kitomari asked the Speaker to see into the possibility of enacting and amending laws which guarantee the right to information. This year’s celebrations with the theme ‘Keeping Power in Check: Media, Justice and the Rule of Law’, Ms Kitomari called for joint efforts to attain that end. On his part, Unesco Regional Advisor for Communication and Information, Mr Jaco Du Toit stressed on the need for the media to promote democracy in the country. “Media is important in promoting the rule of law, but it needs engagement of other involved partners to make it work” he advised.