These were made clear by the Minister for Energy Dr Medard Kalemani, when inspecting the implementation of REA projects in Same and Siha districts in Kilimanjaro region. “We set a specific time to end this project, so the contractors who were trusted by the government and its people to implement this project should make sure they complete it as scheduled because the government won’t add any second, minute, hour or even a day after the deadline,” he warned. Dr Kalemani also said that, the project would involve all hamlets, villages and wards in areas of its implementation including all the households in those areas of the project. He appealed to citizens in areas that the project is being implemented to make sure they make their payments concerning the project as early as possible so as to avoid more charges after its implementation. “ You only needed to pay 27,000/- because the project has been funded by the government by 100 percent. I appeal to you citizens to make sure that you pay early while the project is still in progress. If you delay after the end of the project one will have to pay more. “May I take this opportunity to give directives to relevant authorities to ensure that they open service centres in the areas of the projects implementation so that wananchi would avoid travelling a long way to the district headquarters to seek the payment services,” he said. Speaking during the visit, the Same District Commissioner (DC), Ms Rosemary Senyamule, said that, the project would help to curb electrification challenges that affront users in the district. “So as to make sure we work closely with the Central Government in addressing electrification challenges. There is an investor who has shown interest of investing on solar electrification project which will be able to produce 50 megawatts of electricity”, she noted. Earlier, the Tanzania Electricity Supply Company (Tanesco) District Manager Mr George Fula, told the minister that, a total of 1,827 people were expected to benefit from ongoing third phase of the REA project in the district. “ The project is expected to cover 44.44 kilometres of High Tension lines, 58.38 kilometres of low tension lines, whereby a total of 24 electricity transformers are expected to be fitted,” he said. During the tour, Dr Kalemani launched electricity supplies in Ndungu ward in Same district and Ngarenairobi in Siha district, where he appealed to wananchi to ensure that they protect infrastructure so as to ensure their sustainability. REA is an autonomous body under the Ministry of Energy of the United Republic of Tanzania. Its main role is to promote and facilitate improved access to modern energy services in rural areas of Mainland Tanzania. REA became operational in October 2007. The majority of rural Tanzanians have no access to modern energy services. The government maintains that rural Tanzania cannot be transformed into a modern economy and that rural Tanzanians’ livelihoods cannot be improved significantly without a dramatic improvement in their access to modern energy services. The National Energy Policy 2003 sets national energy objectives to ensure availability of reliable and affordable energy supplies and to promote efficient energy use in order to support national development goals. The policy recognizes that, the main thrust has to be based on private initiatives and investments for exploitation of local energy sources. REA promotes and facilitates rural energy development by working in partnership and collaboration with private sector, Non Governmental Organizations, Community Based Organizations and Government agencies.