Judge Rumanyika made the remarks recently in his judgement whereby the former Member of Parliament (MP) for Muleba North Constituency on Chama cha Mapinduzi ticket (CCM), Ms Ruth Blasio Msafiri (55) was claiming that the government grabbed 20 acres of land and a secondary school in Katoke village, in Muleba district. He noted that, procedures of acquiring village land were not properly followed because the village general assembly was not convened adding that, the funds collected from wananchi and other donors during a campaign was purely for construction of a public secondary school. In Civic Case No 7/2013 filed at the Bukoba High Court Registry, Ms Msafiri was claiming among other things, that while she was Member of Parliament for Muleba North (MP-CCM), she initiated the construction of Ruth Blasio Girls’ Secondary school located in Katoke village, in Muleba district at a cost of 90m/-. Msafiri was Member of Parliament(MP) for Muleba North Constituency on CCM ticket between 2000-2010. She is now District Commissioner (DC) for Njombe. According to the affidavit, Ms Msafiri claimed that she applied and was allocated 20 acres of land by the village council for construction of the school. She claimed that on September 17, 2012, the former Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Fabian Massawe, convened a meeting at Katoke village and announced that the school was government-owned and would forthwith be known as Bujumba Day Secondary school. The five defendants included the Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), The Attorney General (AG), Muleba District Executive Director (DED), Katoke and Kahumulo Village Council. A defence witness, Elias Kago (48) told the high court on Wednesday that Retired President Dr Jakaya Kikwete was among eminent persons who contributed materials for construction of a Community secondary school in Muleba district. Kago told Judge Rumanyika that he was master of ceremony (MC) during a campaign convened on September 17, 2012 at Katoke village whereby Wananchi made various contributions including goats, chickens, mats and other items towards construction of a Community secondary school. About 11m/- was collected on that day. He further testified that during Heroes’ Day commemorations held at Kaboya Barracks, in Muleba district last year retired President Jakaya Kikwete contributed 300 pieces of corrugated iron sheets, the National Micro- Finance Bank (NMB) –Muleba branch contributed 5m/- while the Environmental Development Fund (EDF) contributed 6m/-. Charles Kashuguti (48), who was Village Executive Officer (VEO) for Katoke during 2002 said that, village land is normally offered free of charge to people in need and was not sold. He also denied that, he never wrote any document offering land to the former Member of Parliament (MP) for Muleba North on Chama cha Mapinduzi (CCM) ticket, Ms Ruth Msafiri. He elaborated that when a person applied for land he was requested to write a request which is discussed by the village general assembly. He added that, at such meeting the applicant should attend in person or through a representative. Aloys Thomas (48), the Muleba District Statistics and Logistics Officer told the court that the council contributed 13m/- from the Constituency Development Fund (CDF) for construction of the school. He testified that the council also provided transport to collect the iron corrugated iron sheets donated by President Kikwete from Kemondo Bay. Theobard Mukono (58) told the court that he was the chief contractor in the construction project of the school. He, however, conceded that he did not sign any contract. Senior State Attorney (SSA) Athuman Matuma: How much money did you receive as wages from the project? Mukono: Your honour, I don’t remember.