In just the first season of their promotion to the premiership, Singida United are on the brink of playing in the CAF Confederation Cup, joining Simba, Azam and Young Africans who have been regular envoys in the continental level tournaments. Altogether, the ASFC final, for the first time has eluded Dar es Salaam giants as none of the three is involved. Mtibwa Sugar are based in Morogoro while league debutants Singida United come from a region whose football standard has for a long time been considered of low standards. To football analysts, both teams have something to tell the Tanzanian football fraternity. Mtibwa as the team that grooms local talent and effectively uses them, while on the other hand, Singida tells Tanzanians that with good investment, planning, recruiting and coaching the dominion of Simba, Yanga and Azam can be put to an end. The journey to reach this far was not that easy for both teams as they had to fight hard with well drilled and tough opponents who were also hunting for a ticket to represent the country in next year’s CAF Confederation Cup. Mtibwa Sugar was the first side to step into the last two stage of the competition following a deserved 2-0 victory over Stand United at Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga. The Sugar cane growers produced yet another remarkable away performance to win at a difficult venue which is not easy to cherish by such goal tally. Likewise, Singida United came from a goal down to demolish resilient JKT Tanzania 2-1 at a packed Namfua Stadium in Singida. The hosts had to wait until extra time to kick out the Servicemen after the normal period of play ended 1-1. JKT got the better of Tanzania Prisons in a thrilling quarter finals match at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya courtesy of a 2-0 triumph. It has proved to be a good trend for Singida United who ousted Young Africans at the same venue and so far. Singida United seem to be inches away from flying high the national flag in international duties. The team has shown its hunger for success in every competition they have played. Starting with the Mapinduzi Cup in Zanzibar where they did a good job worth recognition. With the level of investment that Singida United did before being promoted in the top flight league. Registering tangible results is no longer a surprise to many but rather a good lesson. For less fancied teams in the land to learn that success in this beautiful game requires maximum investment and be able to turn that level of investment into success. The two ASFC finalists have met twice in the Mainland Premier League. With the latest encounter between them ending 3-0 in favor of Mtibwa Sugar at United’s Namfua Stadium while the first match ended in a goalless draw. With this simple statistics, on paper, Mtibwa Sugar are better while on the battle field especially in final games. Anything can happen and each side has an equal chance of winning the title. Can this be the end of big team’s dominance in major league competitions in the country? Bearing in mind that the three usual favorite clubs, namely Azam FC, Simba and Yanga were mercilessly expelled by low ranked teams? However, on the league table, Singida United occupies the 5th position with 37 points from 25 games. They have won 9 encounters, registered 10 draws and 6 defeats respectively. Whereas Mtibwa Sugar are 6th on the log with 8 wins, 9 draws and 7 losses. This alone shows how competitive the final will be, therefore the team which will play their cards well, will definitely be crowned champions. Staging the finals in Arusha will help football fans from the popular northern city in the country to enjoy the show at their own door step. But it should also be a challenge to them to do whatever it takes to have a strong team capable of representing the city in various football competitions. Yes, it could have been more appetizing for them to throng the venue and cheer up their local team, but in this scenario, the ASFC silverware will not remain in Arusha no matter the outcome at the end of the clash.