We would like to inform the public that the court has crafted an electronic system to keep the lawyers informed of their registration and their qualifications,” reads a statement issued by the Judiciary recently. According to the statement signed by Deputy Registrar Emmanuel Mrangu, for the Registrar of the High Court, the system was ready for public use, under which clients could cross-check the legitimacy of those whose services they engage. The system aims to keep in check, lawyers operating without licences. The Registrar has strongly warned in the statement and has duly informed members of the public, that it was an offence for an advocate to work without having a practicing licence/ He cautioned that if such a member of the bar does so, his representation in the court or any other legal transaction would be rendered invalid. Several lawyers reached for comment on the matter concurred the Judiciary’s move, saying it would enhance trust among them and the clients they were representing in different court. They include advocates Seni Malimi, Joseph Ndazi and Gaspar Nyika, who pointed out further that the system would also act as a warning for people who had been posing as advocates, who were in effect cheating their clients. The lawyers were quick to point out, however, that for an advocate to practice without a licence should not be treated as a special issue. According to the Tanganyika Law Society (TLS) database, there are currently a total of 6,624 advocates in the Tanzania Mainland with 5,758 as practicing members. Non-practicing members are 193, while suspended members are 118 and unknown members are 297. While officiating a ceremony to admit 248 new advocates in June last year, the Chief Justice, Prof. Ibrahim Juma, directed advocates to adhere to the professional code of ethics and refrain from engaging in illegal practices like bribery. The head of the Judiciary pointed out that engagement on bribery by advocates as officers of the court had detriment effects not only to the society but the whole nation as a whole. He counseled the new advocates to refrain from such malpractices, especially by refusing to be agents of corruption. “Advocates must not be sources of corruption, but be agents of justice,” the CJ was quoted as saying. Prof. Juma also allayed fears that there were threats of deregistering the TLS, saying such the argument was baseless, since advocates were key parties in the administration of justice.