Tanzania resolved to merge five pension funds out of the existing seven schemes targeting to boost service delivery and improve benefits among pension fund members. However, the Funds responded by jointly submitting an outstanding bill to the tune of 2.1tri/- as unpaid arrears. Deputy Minister of Finance and Planning, Dr Ashatu Kijaji told the National Assembly here yesterday that after the financial audit the legitimate debt was shelved down to 1.2tri/-. “This is the debt which was submitted by all pension funds and we have all reached a consensus that the genuine debt to be paid is 1.2tri/-,” she said. “This is the money that the government will pay.” The Deputy Minister’s clarification followed concern by Tumbe MP Rashid Abdallah (CUF), who said the social security schemes of LAPF, PSPF, PPF, NSSF and NHIF had played a vital role in provision of loans to the government and subsequently enhancing social service provision. But he said “It remains unclear on the efforts taken by the government to repay back the loan on time.” In his supplementary question, the MP wondered however whether the bill which was endorsed by the National Assembly to amalgamate the five pension funds have been signed into a law. The government has tabled the Public Service Social Security Fund Bill of 2017, to repeal previous laws under which the seven funds were established. The legislation proposed that all public servants be absorbed by the Public Service Social Security Scheme to be formed under the Act. The Act also establishes the Public Service Pension Scheme that will absorb all government employees, repealing the Public Service Retirement Benefit Act. Public servants currently belong to the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). NSSF however, remains solely for private members. Dr Kijaji said “the president has already signed the bill into law.” She explained that the government is also working to rewrite the regulations that will be tabled for public discussion later this month. “We expect the public opinion will help in the final decision, including paying off the debt the government owes the pension funds,” she noted. The Deputy Minister assured the National Assembly that the debt will be repaid under a special Treasury bond that is expected to mature between three and 20 years. “This payment would have been made before but the government suspended the process when it tabled in the National Assembly a request to merge the funds. Preparations and finally release of bonds will be made as soon as the procedures to merge the pension funds are completed,” she said.