The Speaker, Mr Job Ndugai, stated yesterday during the debate on Water and Irrigation ministry estimated that the government has been allocating a lot of funds for implementation of the projects, but a big chunk of the money ended up benefiting individuals. “We have lots of monies for water projects in our councils but the problem is councils lacking ownership of the cash. Consultants, engineers and other experts deployed to undertake the projects are the ones owning the funds,” Mr Ndugai pointed out. According to him, the situation led to the councils’ failure to effectively monitor the funds to attain ‘value-for-money’ outcome. The quality of project equipment purchased did not match with the amount of money spent, he pointed out. “As a result, the projects become white elephants after a short period because the pipes used don’t last long…if you sit with us (councillors) in the councils you would understand what we need,” the Speaker noted. He was giving his stance following sentiments from some MPs who expressed doubts over the expenditure of the development budget for the water and irrigation budget, with focus on water projects implementation. Kibamba legislator John Mnyika (CHADEMA) asked the Speaker to form a parliamentary probe team to investigate spending on water projects countrywide. “Honourable Speaker, please allow me to submit to the Parliament a private motion seeking to form a Parliamentary team to investigate corruption in the water projects countrywide and its report be tabled here,” he remarked. Mr Livingstone Lusinde (Mtera-CCM) argued that the Water and Irrigation Ministry was very crucial because it cut across several sectors and that no wonder it attracted attention from almost every parliamentarian. However, he quickly appealed to the ministry’s top figures (minister, deputy and permanent secretary) to make close follow ups on the implementation of the projects by visiting the sites for a first hand observations, in order to avert corruption. Contributing to the debate, a cross-section of MPs yesterday pushed for the disbursement of funds proposed for implementation of the ministry’s development projects, saying water touched the lives of their constituents directly. The debate on the ministry’s budget entered the second day yesterday and was expected to end today. On Monday, the ministry tabled its budget, highlighting a number of the ongoing projects, with its development budget proposal for 2018/19 increased by five percent comparing to the current 2017/18. For the fiscal year 2018/19, the ministry has asked the Parliament to endorse 673.2bn/- to implement development projects in water and irrigation, which is up from 643.7bn/- allocated in the 2017/18 financial year.