Studies show that countries where people pay high taxes have been ranked high as the developed ones to the extent that they end up managing their projects and infrastructures without a lot of hiccups and save some to offer as alms/grants to the less fortunate ones. This has been the repeated call of the Fifth Phase Government of John Pombe Magufuli that citizens should pay taxes because it is their social responsibility. This again should not be politicized because; the taxes they pay go to the government, which in turn funds in improving various projects which in turn again help them as the citizens. If all income earners will pay the right amount of tax, the government can collect more money to support its objectives such as building roads, schools, better government salaries and improve government services. These factors can help attract more investors and jobs in the same country and in turn more people will have jobs, meaning that more people will have money to spend which will directly or indirectly improve their livelihoods. On the opposite, if all income earners will illegally reduce the amount of tax obligations, the government will have no funds on hand and will resort to availing private or foreign loans in order to govern the country. There will be lesser funds to build roads, schools, infrastructure, lower wages that decreases morale which leads to poor government services. In this scenario, the cycle of poverty will continue because investor may cease from investing in the country which will reduce jobs and increase poverty. With less jobs in the country, people will have less money to spend and less potential customers in various businesses. Crime will increase which may also directly or indirectly affect families and all sorts of businesses. For that matter, in order to grow one’s business and the government to be able to provide essential services to its people promptly, at some point, an investor will need people or institutions with money to partner with and invest in the country. The investors will look into the host country’s partner(s) financial powers and tax records to support them in investment decisions; this implies that maintaining a truthful and accurate accounting and tax records will boost one’s confidence in the realm of an investor(s). On the other hand, fraudulent and inaccurate will create an impression that a local company is not trustworthy to invest with and that would force a foreign potential partner to relocate into a country where people are honest in paying taxes.