The latest NMB branch was opened at Sirari, on the border with neighbouring Kenya on Monday this week. The new branch was welcomed by residents of Sirari and Tarime District leaders who expressed hope that it would help transform lives of people in Sirari who have been without banking services for decades. For many years, Sirari residents including, the business community have been travelling to Tarime town about, 18 kilometers (one way trip) to seek banking services, thus opening of the NMB branch was considered as a huge relief. “There are people who had not been keeping their cash in the bank because we had no branch in Sirari. Today, it is easy for us to open bank accounts and start depositing our money ”, said Mr Issaya William, a resident of Sirari. Residents of Sirari turned to witness the historical occasion that they have been waiting for years to happen, thanks to NMB for making it possible. Those who had managed to open bank accounts in Tarime town where besides NMB there are other banks like CRDB and NBC said they were being forced to spend shillings 2,000/-as travelling costs whenever they went to deposit or withdraw cash. “Spending 2,000/-to go bank each day, just for transport was big challenge and that is big money if calculate for a month”, a woman who wished not to be named said. Sirari is seen as one of the popular trading places in Tarime District after Tarime town which is the headquarter of the gold- rich district that also borders the world famous Serengeti National Park. Besides having large number of traders crossing into the neighbouring Kenya and coming in Tanzania, the Sirari border is also the entry point of some tourists visiting the country. Thus availability of bank services in the area is of paramount importance not only for traders or farmers but also for tourists and other people. Speaking during the official opening the Sirari NMB branch, Tarime District Commissioner (DC) Mr Glorious Luoga said Sirari is one of the fast growing business areas attracting high population of traders in his district. He also said that opening of the bank would help boost economic growth in the area as well as creating job opportunity through loans provided by NMB. “I advise citizens of Sirari and those from the neighbouring villages to take the advantage by using their services to get development ”, Mr Luoga who was given an opportunity to be the guest of honour at the colourful opening ceremony said. He also counseled Sirari residents including bodabodas (motorbike transporters) and other small entrepreneurs to start keeping their daily earnings in bank. In so doing the entrepreneurs stand to flourish. “Do not keep cash at home. It is risk. Deposit your cash in bank daily”, the Tarime DC who was accompanied by members of the district defence and security committee insisted on part of his speech. Sirari becomes the third NMB branch to be opened in Tarime District that is widely blessed with vast fertile land with suitable climate for production of various cash and food crops such as maize, bananas, coffee, tea and sunflower. The two other branches of NMB are in Tarime town and the small town of Nyamongo which hosts North Mara Gold Mine. Opening of Sirari NMB branch also turned to be a joyful moment for teachers, students and education stakeholders after the bank donated desks, tables and chairs to several public secondary and primary schools in Tarime District council. The schools that benefited from the assistance includes; Borega girls high school, Mogabiri, Kenyamanyori secondary schools and Nyairoma primary school. “As we launch this branch of Sirari we are providing an aid of 100 desks worth 10 mlto primary schools adjacent to Sirari. Also we will be handing over chairs and tables 74 to Mogabiri secondary school, 74 chairs and tables Borega girls high school, nine tables and 42 laboratory stools to Kenyamanyori secondary school”, said Mr Abraham Augustino, the NMB Lake Zone Manager. Mr Augustino said the whole aid valued at 25 ml-was part of the NMB’s policy of giving back to the community. “We believe this support will contribute to development of better education services in Tarime district”, he pointed on parts of his remarks made available to the ‘Daily News’ during the event. Tarime leaders welcomed the donation with Mr Luoga saying that the support would help to improve academic performance of students in the schools. Mr Apoo Castro Tindwa, the Tarime District Council Executive Director (DED) said his council has still two other potential areas that need banking services. The DED named the area as Nyamwaga and Komaswa.