Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa made the assurance at the National Assembly here yesterday during the morning session of questions directed to the PM. During the session, Arusha Urban MP, Godbless Lema, said he recognised the good intention of the government to protect local industries, but currently there was a problem of edible oil prices hike of between 15 and 30 per cent. Meanwhile, he said that offloading of cooking oil from two vessels has been stopped at the Dar es Salaam port over tax issues. He claimed that the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) was demanding 25 per cent tax on the consignment of crude oil while the Parliament passed a law where raw edible oil is supposed to be charged only 10 per cent tax. “The government should put in place a strategy to allow importation of cooking oil because local production does not satisfy demand in order to avoid inflation over low supply,” Mr Lema asked. Reacting, Mr Majaliwa said it was true that there was a problem of the tax payment system and importation of edible oil which led to the two ships to be stranded at the port. The PM said the matter was due to initiated procedures of making follow ups on the importation of the product to protect the local manufacturers by charging them high taxes. He told Parliament that some scrupulous traders were cheating, claiming that they import processed oil while in reality they were importing crude oil in a bid to evade tax. Crude oil is normally charged 10 per cent tax while 25 per cent tax is imposed on processed oil. “ Therefore, we have formed a team to make a close follow-up of the matter and because of the taxes, EAC ministers of finance are going to meet next month in Arusha to harmonise taxes on the products entering the EAC member countries. The PM further directed relevant authorities to ensure there is no price hike on commodities, especially sugar as the holy month of Ramadan approaches. He said the government was aware of regular sugar shortage in the country and has constantly put in place mechanisms to help reduce the shortage. “The country experiences sugar shortage every year, but the process is going on to allow more sugar in the country,” he said, adding that the government has issued import permits to several traders for the purpose