The CCM political veteran who also served as CCM Executive Secretary after the merging of Tanganyika Africa National Union (TANU) and Afro Shiraz Party (ASP) in 1977 and Vice-Chairman (Mainland) poured praises on President Magufuli in a special interview with an international media outlet in Ukerewe, Mwanza region. “ It’s needless to tell a sighted person that he/she should look at something... what President Magufuli is doing is glaringly seen. The best thing is that media and other government institutions are documenting his achievements,” Mr Msekwa said. He was of the view that President Magufuli has so far been exceptional to an extent that every individual who wished the country good will agree that Tanzania was heading to the right direction. Speaking on democracy, the veteran politician said Tanzania is one of the countries in the world where leaders respect the Constitution, including observing leadership term limits. “Leaders who strangle democracy are those who cling to power even after the expiry of their terms...fortunately, this problem does not exist here in Tanzania,” he said. “Since the fifth-phase government started dispensing its responsibilities, things have changed a lot for better. Accountability and job discipline among civil servants have been restored and reduced red tape,” he added. He said health services have improved by building and renovating dispensaries, health centres and hospitals. He said availability of medicines and medical equipment is also increasing. The government has increased budget allocation for medicines from 39bn/- to 268bn/-. According to Mr Msekwa, President Magufuli’s leadership gets high score card following his resolve to fight corruption that was becoming rife in government and social spheres. Execution of power projects as well as improving and building transport infrastructure like roads, bridges, airports and Standard Gauge Railway. Mr Msekwa praised the president for his decision to purchase new six planes, three of which are already operating in the country. Provision of fee-free education to the children is another aspect for which Mr Msekwa praised President Magufuli.