A ‘Daily News’ survey showed that the price of a one-day broiler chick had shot by over 50 per cent to 2,000/- this week from between 1,200/- and 1,400/- of the beginning of the year. Prices for layer chicks went up to 2,800/- from 2,500/- in January. The Association of Dar es Salaam poultry small holders Secretary General Michael Nyambele says the current high prices for chicks make poultry keeping less profitable but adds that the future still looks bright. He said the poultry sector, that had suffered from high prices for chicks due to a ban on imports of poultry products, was heading to a recovery period as local investors turned up the challenge of low supply of chicks into an opportunity to starting up chicks breeding projects. “Chick prices are still high due to low supply after a ban on imports of poultry products. But we are heading into a bright future,” said Mr Nyambele. “The price is swaying farmers’ profit making it harder for them to survive in business.” The Secretary General said somehow farmers are surviving due to low chicken feeds prices that have recently gone down significantly. “If a farmer sells a chicken at 6,000/- and above is left with some profit…. [However], less than that no return on investment,” he said. But some are selling as low as 5,500/-. He said those selling per kilo are fetching a better price of around 8,000/- per bird farmers are hard hit in term of return of investment. Mr Katundu Mchome, a chick-petty trader at Tazara area, said despite prices going up, birds were still available after placing an order. “The chicks are available but by placing an order since eggs need time to be hatched,” he said. But according to Tanzania Poultry Breeders Association (TPBA) Secretary General, Manase Mrindwa said chicks situation was returning to normal and customers who had placed orders were getting their birds in time. “Hatching is a process where it takes three weeks for an egg to be hatched…farmers should prepare their need in advance,” Mr Mrindwa said. The problem, he said, centered on those who ordered in ad-hoc “since chicks are not available as shirts”.