Newspapers, television stations, and the social media were all out to make sure that Tanzanians are kept abreast of the matter. The ongoing debate took its pace from a remark made by the Phase Three President, Benjamin William Mkapa, who on 18 March 2018 said that Tanzania needs a national dialogue on education. He said that most newspapers that he read carried stories with complaints about the state of affairs in the education sector. It then followed that about four days ago many of those who are connected to the social media, and particularly to WhatsApp, saw a picture of parts of the human body going viral. Along with it, there was a page from an English book with faulty sentences which had been aimed at being part of a classroom exercise. There were also issues raised in Mwananchi of 3 May 2018 by some members of parliament on some technical aspects of the content of some of the books. Following the issues highlighted above, and also taking on board my interest and experience in writing, and also taking in mind the wellbeing of education in general, I took time to go and find out the truthfulness of the matter. I then decided to go through the books written by the Tanzania Institute of Education to satisfy myself. One of the issues that have been outstanding this week is a picture showing the parts of the body. The picture has arrows pointing to the wrong parts of the body. The picture, which is presented on the left-hand side (above) circulated widely in the media. However, according to the TIE press release that came out in the media on 4th May, 2018 is not related to any of the pictures which TIE has used in their books. In fact, they report that the circulating picture is not theirs. Instead, a 2018 TIE book, titled Afya na Mazingira Kitabu cha Mwanafunzi (2018, p.3), which shows the parts of the body, uses the picture which is presented on the right-hand side below. As can be seen, the said picture is correctly labelled. Another circulating document is a page from an old English book which was published by TIE in 2016. Sadly, this old English book, which was for Standard III, had many mistakes. Due to its substandard quality, the Government condemned and abolished it, along with all other books published by TIE that year. This means that the low quality books were no longer being printed. Following their condemnation and abolition, TIE has in 2018 published an improved version of the English book (and other books). Incidentally, the faulty page circulating in the social media is not one of the pages from the new book published in 2018. I have gone through all the books which TIE has published in 2018. These books are of a high quality. If there are mistakes in the books, those are merely human, and will have no significant effect on teaching and learning. Being a professional editor and teacher of English myself, I am surprised at the issues raised in the media and also by some politicians. They have amplified the matter so much that those who have not read the books might believe that what they are saying is true. When I asked the management of TIE about who the writers and the editorial teams were, the quality of people who went through the books is superbly uncompromising. Some of them were specialists in the academic disciplines: full professors, associate professors, senior lecturers, lecturers, assistant lecturers from universities, teacher training college tutors, secondary and primary school teachers. Besides, the books were taken to schools for piloting before they were sent to the Commissioner for his approval. Then came into my mind an important question, “Are the TIE text books really faulty and flawed, or is there something else hidden behind the scene”? While it is true that there can be several responses to this question, a few things came to my mind. The most obvious one is the motive behind the forged picture and the page taken from the discarded English book. Here, the intention is slanderous, defamatory, and possibly malicious. It is tantamount to saying that TIE is incapable of writing books, which is doubtful. I am also aware that the book business is horrendously lucrative. In fact, going through some books published by private publishers, there are just too many faults. It is surprising that these same people who are making all this noise did not come out a few years back before TIE was re-commissioned to write text books for Tanzanian schools. In deed, they should right now make that noise. Why is this noise one-sided? Since it is not my intention to expose which books written by private authors/publishers are faulty in this article, suffice it to say that it is a sign maturity and good intention to strike a balance. Coming back to my main question, why is this noise so loud? And why is it geared mainly towards blaming? In writing, there will always be mistakes. Even the most established publishing houses make mistakes. I would think that we should all move in the direction of advising and helping our institutions. It is true that we all have different skills, and the best way is dialogue and sharing. However, when we advise, we must filter our method and channel of communication. Good advice may be turned down if it is not politely and courteously given. In conclusion, what seems to be behind the communications in the media about the books published by TIE is malice. And since defamation is a crime punishable by law, the Government should take this matter up and take the culprits to the court. If the authors can prove otherwise, then the law can acquit them. Possibly, what is more important is the fact that as Tanzanians we are duty bound to help our nation grow. If we identify a problem, let us contribute to solving it. LONG LIVE TANZANIA!