One of them is ‘Asiyesikia la mkuu huvunjika guu’, which liberally translates as ‘Whoever ignores the advice of an elder risks suffering grave consequences’. Mzee Yusufu Makamba, now in retirement, is one of the country’s prominent politicians. He has additionally endeared himself to many of his compatriots through being deeply humourous. Typical of those who are so endowed, part of the humour is brutally frank, but this is driven by the well-intentioned purpose of getting the message across emphatically. Those with sharp memories and more-so the ones who were at least young adults then, may recall that, when he was Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, Mzee Makamba was steadfast in a mission to get people living in low-lying, flood-prone areas to relocate to high-ground, safer ones. He had argued that it would be rational for them to cope with inconveniences of relocation, than to stick to settlements that were prone to risks that included deaths. They may also recall that the mission was spiritedly opposed and was even twisted to imply that the RC was insensitive to the plight of inhabitants of areas like Jangwani, being almost demonized as inhuman. Not very long thereafter, acute flooding wreaked havoc, valley-based people being the hardest hit, characterized by deaths, damage to property and homelessness. Humourously, Mzee Makamba remarked that , God had pronounced a verdict in the floods menace-related case, implying that, he and the team over which he superintended, had been vindicated ! As he enjoys his retirement in Tanga Region, it is a safe guess that one of the things that the grand old man is upset with is the stubbornness of people living in risky places to resettle in safer ones. This is of course an issue on which cynicism or humour can’t provide lasting solutions. Through these mediums, however, sense can be drummed onto people who are notorious for resisting sound advice for their own good. The effects stemming from the current rough rainy season will hopefully make a difference, by getting authorities and hopefully rational wananchi, to address the ensuing threats and damage more seriously and rationally. Life is our most precious possession. Poking fun at it is inexcusably sinful!