Justices Sauda Mjasiri, Stella Mugasha and Shaban Lila, instead, ordered fresh hearing of the case with immediate effect based on a proper charge in accordance with the law after considering an appeal Chode, as the appellant, had lodged to fault the findings of the High Court. In their judgment delivered recently, the justices noted that the appellant was charged, tried and convicted on a non-existent enactment. They said that the charge against the appellant ought to have been preferred under the section and enactment creating the offence. “However, the charge was preferred under a nonexistent law and it is surprising that the prosecution, in a serious offence at hand but they did not (…..)apply for an amendment considering that the law gives (them) a wider avenue of amending the charge sheet at any stage of the trial,” they said. The justice further pointed out that having failed to utilize the opportunity to amend the charge by inserting the correct enactment of the section creating the offence in order to give it life, the prosecution, “in fact, fell on its own sword.” They as well agreed with the appellant’s counsel Majura Magafu that it was incumbent upon the trial judge to satisfy himself on the propriety of the charge sheet before embarking on the trial by making requisite orders in terms of section 276 (2) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA). The justices, therefore, ruled that it was fatal irregularity which adversely impacts on the principals of fair trial as such for the appellant to be charged, tried and convicted on a non-existed enactment and such defect could not be salvaged under section 388 (1) of the Act as proposed by the prosecution. “ We say so because it is the charge sheet which is the foundation of the trial because the principle has always been that an accused person must know the nature of the charges facing him before making his defence,” they said. According to the justices, on account of an incurably defective charge preferred under a non-existed law, it could not be safely vouched that the appellant was fairly tried. In such regard, they concluded, the trial was a nullity and before them no appeal lies. “ We therefore invoke the provisions of section 4 (2) of the (Appellate Jurisdiction Act) and hereby nullify the entire proceedings and the judgment of the trial Court. We order trial de novo with immediate effect based on a proper charge in accordance with the law,” they declared. The prosecution had claimed before the High Court that the appellant and one Kambi Seif, on February 21, 2011 at Jogoo Street, Mbezi Beach area within Kinondoni District, jointly and together trafficked into the United Republic of Tanzania the said huge amount of narcotic drugs valued at 5,262,341,700/-.