President John Magufuli issued the warning in Morogoro Region yesterday where he directed the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Water and Irrigation, Prof Kitila Mkumbo, to travel to the region to inspect all pending and ongoing water projects. Dr Magufuli issued the warning and directives while addressing a public rally in Morogoro during an occasion to lay a foundation stone for construction of 66.9 kilometres of tarmac road between Kidatu and Ifakara in the region. The First Citizen also directed security agencies, including the police and Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to act swiftly to pin downcontractors who had reportedly disappeared. “I have been informed that some contractors were paid money for the projects but they have failed to accomplish the schemes. These contractors should be warned that public funds under my tenure in office will not be swindled by anyone in any way. “These contractors should know that playing with public funds during the Fifth Phase Government is like leaking poison; they should immediately continue undertaking the projects or refund the money paid to them,” Dr Magufuli stated. The President explained that the government would not hesitate to take actions against the shoddy contractors, noting that the Contractors Registration Act number 17 of 1997 provides a punishment of up to five years in jail for such companies. Dr Magufuli called upon Tanzanians from all walks of life to rally behind efforts by the government to curb corruption and all forms of embezzlement of public funds for betterment of the country and its people. Earlier, almost all MPs from Morogoro who spoke at the rally expressed concern over delays in implementation of water projects as well as poor supply of the precious liquid to residents in their respective constituencies and reached out to the government to act and address the challenge. Notable among them was Mikumi MP, Mr Joseph Haule. alias Profesa J (Chadema), who made a request to the government to provide 2bn/- for completion of a water project at Ruaha ward to solve water woes in the region. President Magufuli was irked that Morogoro was facing challenges of water shortage and yet the region was endowed with major sources of water, notably rivers and pledged to act to address the poor supply of the precious liquid. In another development, Dr Magufuli revealed yesterday that he had received more than 60 invitations to attend meetings abroad but declined the offers, insisting that his focus was to spearheads development projects for Tanzanians. “I have many assistants who can represent me in those foreign countries, my focus at this time is to serve the people who elected me into power through execution development projects in health, water, infrastructure and education,” the president said. President Magufuli on the other hand pledged to assess the status of all desolate farm estates in region with a view of revoking their title deeds and eventually relocate the land to ordinary people free of charge