Minister for Home Affairs, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba, announced yesterday in the National Assembly that NIDA has so far registered a total of 14,048,493 citizens as of March, this year. This is equivalent to 26 per cent of the total population of 52.5 million Tanzanians, according to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) population projections for 2017. In addition, the authority had also registered some 13,254 foreign nationals residing in the country and 6,289 other refugees. “An exercise to collect biometric information for eligible Tanzanians is going on across Tanzania mainland and in the Isles,” Dr Nchemba said when tabling his budget estimates for the FY 2018/19. Dr Nchemba announced that the authority is contemplating starting registering all citizens at birth places to help ease identification process. He said that lack of identification is limiting security organs in curbing riot groups including ‘Panya Road’ and ‘Wakorea Weusi,’ which resurfaced in Dar es Salaam and Mbeya, respectively. The Ministry of Home Affairs requested the National Assembly to approve its budget to the tune of 945.5bn/-, slightly higher than 930.3bn/- approved for the 2017/18 financial year. Of the budget, the ministry allocates 38.3bn/- for development projects. The minister said 40 per cent or 15.3bn/- is chiefly for the National Identification Authority. Apparently, Dr Nchemba said the authority had integrated its system with 35 other institutions to ease provision of social services in the country. NIDA has also completed the construction of its Data Centre in Kibaha, Coastal region and a Data Recovery Centre in Kihonda, Morogoro region. The construction of the data centre, however, raises questions to observers considering that President John Magufuli directed all state institutions to have their data centres synchronised at the 94 million US dollar National Data Centre located at Kijitonyama in Dar es Salaam. During 2018/19, the minister said the authority will start building its headquarters in Dodoma after securing a soft loan from the People’s Republic of South Korea. It was not immediately known the amount projected to fund the new structure in the city, but Dr Nchemba said the authority also plans to connect 33 other district offices with fibre optic to the Head Office in Dar es Salaam to fast track data recording and issuing of identification to all eligible citizens.