Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elders and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile told the parliament yesterday that in addition, the government will also train expectant mothers on kangaroo mother care. He made the remarks while responding to a supplementary question asked by Special Seats MP, Halima Bulembo (CCM-Special Seats) who had wanted to know what the government is doing to help curb the deaths caused by lack of facilities for underweight newborns in most hospitals in the country. The lawmaker argued that over 9,000 newborns die every year in the country due to poor services and lack of facilities at the health centres. “What is the government doing to help rescue underweight children?” she asked. But the deputy minister acknowledged that maternal deaths are on the increase in the country but the government is doing everything possible to reduce the problem. Earlier, Ileje MP Janeth Mbene (CCM) had asked the government to state plans to ensure that underweight children get services at district hospitals and health centres throughout the nation. She also wanted to know when the Ileje district hospital would be provided with the equipment to handle underweight children. She also called on the government to increase maternity leave for mothers with such children to six months with full salary. In his response, the deputy minister of State in the President’s Office, Regional Authority and Local Government, Josephat Kandege said the district has 33 health facilities including two hospitals, 30 dispensaries and one health centre. He said nursery for the underweight newborns are found in the two hospitals and in cases where the children cannot even breathe, they are helped using oxygen concentrator, available in the hospitals. “The government is keen on this matter and will continue providing facilities for the underweight newborns in all health centres and district hospitals in the country” said the deputy minister. He explained that in the 2018/19 Ileje district has set aside 12m/- for the purchase of the needed equipment to aid children born with such complications