According to the House schedule released on Monday by the House’s Clerk, Ms Raya Issa Msellem, a total of 279 questions will be filled by lawmakers to ministers during the morning sessions. The House will also debate and eventually endorse the budget of the revolutionary government of Zanzibar for the coming financial year, Ms Msellem said, adding everything was in place for the commencement of the longest sitting in a calendar year. Cabinet ministers are expected to present reports on how they executed their previous budgets and move their 2018/19 budget estimates for debate and endorsement. The Controller and Audit General (CAG) will also table his report for the 2015/2016 fiscal year, revealing how central and local governments spent funds allocated to them. The Finance and Planning Minister will also table the Finance and Appropriation bills, which upon being approved by the House will set in motion the execution of the coming budget. The Zanzibar Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Authority annual performance report will also appear before the House for debate and endorsement. According to Ms Msellem, other unspecified bills will come up for first reading. Last year, the House approved a 1.08tr/- budget for the current financial year, which ends in June 30, up from 841bn/- endorsed during the 2016/17 fiscal year. Moving the budget in the House last year, the Minister for Finance, Dr Khalid Salum Mohamed highlighted seven priority areas, including improvement of social services; health, education, housing, clean water, infrastructure, strengthening the tourism sector, developing gateways; airport and seaports, and the development of medium industries. The government expected to collect 675bn/- from domestic sources and incomes. The Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) was tasked to collect at least 258bn/- while the Zanzibar Revenue Board (ZRB) was assigned to collect 347bn/-. Development partners were expected to contribute 380bn/-, of which 82bn/- would be in the form of grants and the remaining 298bn/- loans.