Two of the new programmes are at masters’ level that is Master of Science in social protection policy and development and Master of Science insurance and actuarial sciences and the other is Bachelor of Science in Actuarial studies. The institute's Acting Dean of Insurance and Social Protection Faculty, Dr Saidi Jafari said, the programmes have been developed by internal initiatives in response to industry and general stakeholder demands. He added that, they are timely and market sensitive. “The idea behind the development of these programmes is two-fold: first it is geared towards producing strategic social actors who will be able to provide insurance, social protection and actuarial services and products,” he noted Dr Jafari added that, the second reason aims at creating responsible, creative and competent graduates who are capable of dealing with various problems in their fields of practice. He further said the new programmes are intended to address these problems through capacity development at the institute and for graduates who come from the field. Expounding further on the matter he said that, they were not going to prepare job seekers for the market. Rather, they will prepare job creators and that will give them the greatest opportunities to serve the needy society in the process of development. The dean explained that graduates from these programmes are expected to be able to display mastery of complex relationships that exist within the insurance and social protection sectors and to demonstrate ability and agility to solve and give answers to current and future problems in the area. Earlier, the IFM Rector, Professor Tadeo Satta said, they believe that the insurance industry needs to be given special consideration to ensure that its professionals are groomed further to master insurance and social protection trades within the country.Currently, the existing hydropower projects have a combined capacity to generate 560 megawatts. The Rufiji project will add over 2,100 megawatts, which is nine times the capacity of the current large hydroelectric project, Kidatu, that produces 204 MW. Dr Kalemani told MPs that all government institutions charged with the sustainability of the project were striving on crafting the right scenario, especially infrastructures at the site. “We have already connected three villages with electricity and the plan is to build electricity infrastructure to the site to allow the selected contractor to start work immediately,” he said. According to the minister, the ministry responsible for Works, Transport and Communication was also getting set to construct a road network to facilitate transportation of facilities needed during the execution. Giving details, Engineer John Mageni from the Ministry of Energy, said construction of the hydro facility would involve building a main dam and appurtenant structures, with expected reservoir length of 100 km, covering an area of about 1,350 square km. The dam height is about 134 metres. Rufiji will have an installed capacity of at least 2,100 MW, with a minimum guaranteed annual firm energy of 5,920 GWh. The facility will include a 400-KV switch yard. The ministry anticipates that the facility will contain nine vertical Francis turbines, each with a capacity of 200 MW to 300 MW. The government says it had so far connected 412 new villages under the first round of Rural Energy Agency Phase III which targets to connect at least 7,873 villages countrywide. About 5100 villages will be reached during the first round or REA III and 2773 others will be connected during the second round that is expected to start next July.