Alongside Ambassador Kidata, Mr Msalika Makungu was also sworn-in as Tabora Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS). “I want to know how Tanzania has benefited during the period an ambassador has served in a certain country ... appointment is one thing but it’s not guaranteed that you will finish your term at your work station. If you fail to deliver, you will be recalled and replaced by a competent person,” warned President Magufuli. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Dr Susan Kolimba asked the new envoy to promote the country’s tourism attraction for more tourists to visit and boost the country’s earnings. “ Use various platforms, national and international special events in Canada and Cuba to promote tourist attractions … motivate Tanzanians in Diaspora to use their opportunity of living abroad for the country’s development,” she said. In another development, the President was also pleased with the Ministry of State, President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), for performing well in education and health sectors. But, he condemned the ministry on implementation of projects in water and land sectors, especially the mismanagement of land issues and urban planning. The Head of State revealed that investigations has shown that out of 109bn/- which has been disbursed for water projects in the country since 2010, only projects worth 17bn/- have appropriately demonstrated the value for money used. The President directed all water experts in municipalitiesto report directly to the Permanent Secretary (PS) for the Ministry of Water and Irrigation. He also gave similar order for land surveyors and planners in the municipalities, directing them to report to their respective ministry PS for strengthened supervision and accountability in project execution. “Currently, everyone everywhere is complaining of water, members of parliament (MPs) are complaining, people are complaining, the government has issued funds for water but there is no water supply … if you investigate these projects, you will find out that they were supervised by council engineers. Come to think of it, the PS of the respective ministry cannot hold them accountable but councillors can … we cannot operate this way,” said Dr Magufuli. Such is also happening on land, there are huge problems related to land and urban planning, people are being corned of their properties, allocation of land is also a problem … building permits are purposely delayed and come to think of it the PS cannot take any action, this is a problem,” stressed the Head of State.