Two of the new programmes are at masters’ level that is Master of Science in social protection policy and development and Master of Science insurance and actuarial sciences and the other is Bachelor of Science in Actuarial studies. The institute's Acting Dean of Insurance and Social Protection Faculty, Dr Saidi Jafari said, the programmes have been developed by internal initiatives in response to industry and general stakeholder demands. He added that, they are timely and market sensitive. “The idea behind the development of these programmes is two-fold: first it is geared towards producing strategic social actors who will be able to provide insurance, social protection and actuarial services and products,” he noted Dr Jafari added that, the second reason aims at creating responsible, creative and competent graduates who are capable of dealing with various problems in their fields of practice. He further said the new programmes are intended to address these problems through capacity development at the institute and for graduates who come from the field. Expounding further on the matter he said that, they were not going to prepare job seekers for the market. Rather, they will prepare job creators and that will give them the greatest opportunities to serve the needy society in the process of development. The dean explained that graduates from these programmes are expected to be able to display mastery of complex relationships that exist within the insurance and social protection sectors and to demonstrate ability and agility to solve and give answers to current and future problems in the area. Earlier, the IFM Rector, Professor Tadeo Satta said, they believe that the insurance industry needs to be given special consideration to ensure that its professionals are groomed further to master insurance and social protection trades within the country.“Competence is what matters in any educational opportunity. We would, therefore, like to assure the academic fraternity that this is what we are striving to achieve in these new programmes -- just like in other programmes that we offer,” he noted. The Deputy Minister for finance and planning, Dr Ashatu Kijaji said, recent surveys indicate that uptake of insurance services have not been impressive, although Finscope reports an upward trend in insurance uptake. However, these are mainly attributed to health insurance covers and other statutory covers. Dr Kijaji said, the contribution of the insurance sector in the GDP has also not been impressive in the recent times compared with other economies in the region. The sector has been contributing a meagre 0.7 per cent. “The insurance industry of Tanzania is currently full of opportunities at the time when Tanzania is expecting to become an industrialized country by 2025. The rapid economic developments now sweeping the country create such enormous opportunities for the insurance industry,” she said. She further said that, the growth of this market segment hindered by low demand for insurance, which mainly contributed, to low understanding by potential customers on how insurance works which results into negative perceptions and attitudes towards insurance. Dr Kijaji highlighted another challenge as a low growth of insurance activities that arises due to limited distribution channels for insurance, limited skilled insurance personnel, limited product offerings (including Micro insurance) and lack of enabling environment.