Home Affairs Minister, Mwigulu Nchemba told the National Assembly that so far both governments of Mainland and Zanzibar have finished the exercise of collecting views on the draft Bill. “We hope that by end of this year we would have reached another stage of sending the Bill to parliament,” he said, adding that the law is expected to make the companies contribute more to the country’s development. He was speaking in the Parliament on Friday evening during the debate of his ministry’s proposed budget of 945.5bn/-, out of which 907bn/- is set for recurrent and 38bn/- for development projects. He gave the promise in response to an inquiry by Mr. Almas Maige, Tabora North Legislator (CCM) who wanted to know when the law will be put in place. The is also expected to control mushrooming of private security companies which have posed security threats as some are thought to be part of facilitating crimes. Deputy Minister Eng Hamad Masauni spoke of plans to empower the police and improve their benefits. He said the ministry intends to build 400 houses in each region as a starting point and the project will kick off in Dodoma city council, considering its status of being the capital city. “We will use our scarce resources to build these houses, including effectively using the construction unit within the police itself for the project in order to reduce costs,” he assured, noting that same would be applied for prison officers’ houses. Speaking over illegal immigrants, he said 13000 immigrants were arrested in the past one year. He reminded members of parliament that when the fifth phase government came to power in 2015, there was rampant problem of illegal immigrants. “That forced us to launch a countrywide operation which was successful, netting 2199 illegal immigrants who were working in various companies in the country. Thereafter we managed to reinstate discipline in our country,” he said. Legal and Constitutional Affairs Minister, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, said the case where sheikhs (leaders of Uamsho Islamic group) are being held by police in Zanzibar was currently under the office of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP). “This case is very sensitive, associating the suspects to terrorism… and the government is aware that the case has taken a long time and it intends to see that the case comes to an end, we are working towards gathering enough evidence to end the case,” he said. Nominated MP, Abdallah Bulembo (CCM), censured his fellow political leaders over the tendency to undermine police officers because of their political status, infringing traffic regulations and laws while driving, forgetting that no one was above the country’s laws.