The remark was made by Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries Deputy Minister, Dr Mary Mwanjelwa, in an explanation that through the system, the crop from the farmers will be collected, milled and then sold at an auction with the supervision of the cooperative unions, Tanzania Cooperative Development Commission (TCDC), Coffee Board and the Board of the Warehouse Receipt System. She said that the government has tasked the TCDC to ensure that such arrangement was carried out professionally and successfully. “This will make the coffee to be bought at competitive prices to benefit the farmers,” pointed out Dr Mwanjelwa, further in a clarification while responding to an inquiry by Kyerwa Member of Parliament (MP) Innocent Sebba. In his basic question, Mr Sebba pointed out that recently the government changed the system of selling coffee, adding that now it will be done through the cooperative unions and asked how the State has organised itself to ensure that it comes up with better prices for the farmers. He further sought to know the government’s decision on people who have contributed to the demise of some of the cooperative societies in the country. She told the Parliament that the government through the TCDC and the Cooperative Audit and Supervision Corporation (COASCO) has continued to carry out regular audits on the societies, besides taking legal actions once it spots embezzlements of their funds. “Some of the actions being taken include phasing out the leaders found guilty from their positions after investigations and bringing them to book in a court of law. Some of the culprits were sent to court and asked to give back the money to the societies,” she added. Meanwhile, the ministry has pledged to consider a request from Mlimba legislator, Susan Kiwanga to construct a water pond in her constituency for animals to drink. Ms Kiwanga argued that her constituency is blessed with a number of rivers flowing naturally throughout the year, which could be tapped to construct some ponds to the herders. “ My Ministry has received the request and promise to incorporate it the matter in the 2018/19 budget. But let me call upon the local authorities to continue encouraging the private sector, pastoralists and development stakeholders to initiate such projects and construct ponds for the animals to get drinking water and improve the sector,” said the Deputy Minister Abdallah Ulega.