Delivering a speech at the Third Forum on China-Africa Local Government Cooperation (CALGC) here, the former Secretary General of the defunct Organisation of African Unity (OAU) now African Union (AU), hinted that to achieve the goal more must be done on peace, security and poverty alleviation. Running under the theme, “PovertyAlleviation and Sustainable Development”, the forum, among other things, focused on exchanges and cooperation between the two parties as well as enhancing friendship between Chinese and Africans. “We must ensure this cooperation gives us more positive results. Our people must benefit from our relationship, in this case we must collectively take into account that we work for our people,” the renowned diplomat asserted. He affirmed that China remains Africa’s true and sincere partner, hinting that the East Asian economic giant attached great importance to the continent even when it was still struggling for economic development. The veteran politician told the forum participants that Africa will never forget China’s support during the struggle against colonialism and apartheid, when the East Asian nation extended both material and moral support to the continent. “Our cooperation is historical. Africa understands how China sacrificed a lot to see the continent becomes politically independent. And today, as we struggle for economic development, we are still seeing the sincere support China is offering,” he noted. Dr Salim gave examples of flagship projects that China funded in Africa, including the major Chinese foreign-aid project, Tanzania-Zambia Railway (TAZARA), saying the projects signal true friendship, brotherhood and sincere cooperation between the two sides. “ China has sincerely helped Africa’s development and is a true friend of Tanzania. I hope that the two sides will conduct in-depth exchanges and cooperation at all levels and continue consolidating and developing the traditional friendship between Tanzania and China,” he stated. The 76-year-old distinguished leader and internationalist also challenged China and Africa to give more priority to local governments as they are the closest representation of the people. “Local governments are important vehicles to ensure the countries’ resources benefit citizens, we must attach great importance to this fact,” Dr Salim noted. Officiating at forum’s opening ceremony, Chinese Vice- President Wang Qishan reaffirmed that China was ready to contribute to Africa’s development. He said the local governments’ exchanges and cooperation on poverty alleviation and sustainable development will help to promote comprehensive strategic cooperation partnerships between China and African nations. The vice president noted that Chinese investment in Africa as of last year hit 170 billion US dollars, attributing the achievement to mutual understanding between the two sides. Mr Wang expounded that China was ready to share governance experience with Africa, deepen production capacity cooperation and augment people to people exchanges. He underscored the need for central governments to have strong policy support and create enabling environment for local authorities to effectively carry out their duties. President of the Chinese-African People’s Friendship Association Mr Abdul’ahat Abdurixit said China-Africa relationship is heading forward in spite of complexity of international politics and economic situation. He noted that various measures like pooling resources, tapping talents and setting up platforms for cooperation have been taken to put the China-Africa joint projects into practice to bring tangible benefits to the common people. “ This forum has also played an active role in promoting exchanges on local levels and consolidating the China-Africa comprehensive strategic and cooperative partnership,” he said.