The Deputy Minister, Mr Joseph Kakunda told the National Assembly that his office has not been updated with the latest demand that was raised by Special Seats MP (Chadema), Ms Suzan Lymo. The lawmaker claimed that the authority in Moshi had submitted a request for the metropolis to be upgraded to metropolitan considering the population, social services and the existence of Africa’s tallest mountain, Mount Kilimanjaro. “We want to know when the municipal will be uplifted to a city status,” she said. The Deputy Minister said however, that the government is busy enhancing the new districts before moving to announce new administration territories in the country. There are 185 councils in the country after six new districts that were added, including Ubungo and Kigamboni districts. “We want the new districts to be fully equipped with better and permanent structures before moving on to pronounce new areas of administration,” he said in response to MPs who had requested developments from the government to upgrade a number of areas into township and district councils. Special Seats MP (CCM) Sikudhani Chikombo asked the government to explain measures it was taking to demarcate Tunduma district into two councils, considering the wide area of over 18,780 square kilometres. Ezekiel Maige (Msalala, CCM) also demanded to know when Isaka will be announced full town council after all the requirements from the district authority were all submitted to the minister for consideration. Mr Kakunda acknowledged the ministry receiving the application to confer township council for Isaka, but said a number of works are being carried out by the ministry officials before awarding the new title. The minister jokingly however said the big size of the area does not necessarily grant the area the right to be upgraded to a township or electoral constituency. He explained that other factors to be considered include the existence of a master plan, at least 30 per cent of its plot must be surveyed and mapped, and space in the National Assembly. Another MP, Hasna Katunda (Kigoma South, CCM) had asked whether there were possibilities by the government and the National Electoral Commissioner to demarcate the constituency into two, considering the geographical reaso