It is being undertaken against the backdrop of the collapse of many industries that, for quite many years after their establishment, had been operating successfully. So successful were some of them, indeed, that they significantly elevated the status of Tanzanians as a people who were aspiring to the self-reliance spirit by action, rather than empty sloganeering. But all major economic and social undertakings are inter-connected, as only one of them, or just a handful, can’t move the nation forward on a rational, reasonably fast speed. Plus, the citizens, ideally the majority, should, as it were read from the same script, in order to attain the desired goals. Now, industrialization is scientific, and as such, its pursuit is bound to be affected if primitive trends or tendencies are allowed to flourish. There’s a distinction though, between positive customs and traditions that relate to Tanzania’s 120 plus tribes. These are cherished, aptly captured by the ‘Culture is the soul of the nation’ motto. Some compatriots within some tribes who are diehard defenders of evidently degrading and harmful practices are spoilers. The practices are at odds with modern world trends like our current highly spirited industrial economy drive. We thus have cause to be heartened by periodic reports of successes in initiatives to win originally firm advocates of negative and acutely harmful cultural practices. One of the latest manifestations is the decision by traditional midwives in Arusha Region’s Arumeru District, to quit the practice and pursue humanely ideal income generation activities. This most heartening development climaxes a painstaking education-cum-sensitisation mission undertaken by the charitable organization HIMS: Health Integrated Multi-sectoral Services since 2005. We are giving salutations to HIMS and the ex-midwives, as the achievement is an indirect input into the ‘Uchumi wa viwanda’ drive into which some of the women who had been perpetrators of the barbaric practice would certainly be absorbed. We hope the good news from Arusha will energise initiatives to curb FGM (Female Genital Mutilation), a far more disastrous practice, against which resistance to eradicate is stiffer. For that, and other retrogressive practices are anathema to the industrial drive and must be fought relentlessly.